75-Minute Pizza Dough

1 3/4 cups water, warm (about 105 degrees)
1 envelope rapid-rise dry yeast
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
2 tablespoons olive oil
4 cups unbleached all-purpose flour, plus extra as needed
1 1/2 teaspoons table salt
Vegetable oil (or cooking spray) for bowl
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Set oven to 200 degrees for 10 minutes, then turn oven off.

2. Meanwhile, in bowl of food processor fitted with either metal or plastic blade, add water and sprinkle in yeast and sugar. Pulse twice to dissolve yeast. Add all remaining ingredients and process until mixture forms cohesive mass. Dough should not be sticky (if it is, add 2 more tablespoons flour and pulse briefly) nor should it be dry and crumbly (if it is, add 1 more tablespoons water and pulse briefly). Let rest for 2 minutes. Process for another 30 seconds.

3. Remove dough from food processor and knead by hand on floured work surface for 1 minute or until dough is smooth and satiny (dough will feel a bit tough at this point).

4. Very lightly oil large bowl with vegetable oil or cooking spray. Place dough in bowl (do not coat dough with oil) and cover with plastic wrap. Place in warm oven. Let rise for 40 minutes or until doubled. Remove from bowl, punch down, and separate into two round pieces. Let rest for 10 minutes under damp dish towel, then shape according to illustrations below, and add toppings.

5. Proceed to cook topped pizza in preheated 500-degree oven using the following guide to determine cooking time for pizza crust with topping but without cheese. All pizzas need to be cooked an additional two or three minutes after adding cheese, or until cheese is completely melted.

THIN CRUST

14-inch pizzas (Master Recipe makes 2) - 7 to 8 minutes 12-inch pizzas (Master Recipe makes 4) - 5 minutes 8-inch pizzas (Master Recipe makes 8)- 3 minutes.

MEDIUM-THICK CRUST

12-inch pizzas (Master Recipe makes 2) - 9 to 10 minutes 8-inch pizzas (Master Recipe makes 4) - 5 minutes 6-inch pizzas (Master Recipe makes 8) - 4 minutes.