Here's the potato salad it is adapted from CI's recipe.
Creamy Potato Salad 8 servings
1 hour 10 minutes 45 minutes prep
2 pounds Yukon Gold potatoes, peeled and cut into ¾ “ cubes
1 TBS Kosher salt (Diamond) (divided)
1 tablespoon prepared mustard
3 tablespoons dill pickle juice (divided)
2 sweet pickles finely chopped
1 large dill pickle finely chopped
2 teaspoons apple cider vinegar
1/4 teaspoon pepper (I use white)
2 teaspoons sugar
2 teaspoons celery seeds
1/4 cup mayonnaise
1/4 cup Miracle Whip
1/4 cup sour cream
1/2 cup finely chopped red onions
1/2 lb bacon, fried and crumbled
1 cup finely chopped celery
2 hardboiled eggs, cut into 1/4“ dice (optional, I didn’t use)

1. Place potatoes in a large non-stick sauté pan with cold wat4er to cover by 1”. Bring to a boil over high heat, add 2 tsps kosher salt, reduce heat to medium low, and simmer until potatoes are tender, 10 to 15 minutes.

2. Drain potatoes thoroughly, and then spread out on a rimmed baking sheet. Mix 2 TBs pickle juice and mustard together in small measuring cup. Drizzle pickle juice mixture over potatoes and toss until evenly coated. Refrigerate until cooled, about 30 minutes.

3. Mix remaining tablespoon pickle juice, chopped pickles, vinegar, remaining tsp salt, pepper, sugar, celery seed, mayo, Miracle Whip, sour cream, red onion, bacon and celery in a large bowl. Stir in cooled potatoes and toss to coat well dressing and refrigerate until well-chilled (about 30 minutes). (Salad can be refrigerated in airtight container for up to 2 days.) If using, gently stir in eggs just before serving.

Notes from the original recipe:
• Use firm-textured, full-flavored Yukon Gold potatoes. They hold their shape after cooking and won’t turn mushy in the salad. Do take the time to peel them first; their skin can be tough and papery. Make sure not to overcook the potatoes or the salad will be quite sloppy. Keep the water at a gentle simmer and use the tip of a paring knife to judge the doneness of the potatoes. If the knife inserts easily into the potato pieces, they are done.
• Use pickle juice in the vinaigrette. Because it is less acidic and sweeter-tasting than vinegar, we found that it could be used to great effect.
• Drizzle the still-warm potatoes with a mixture of pickle juice and mustard. The hot potatoes will easily absorb the acidic liquid and taste seasoned through to the middle.

I don't like hardboiled eggs so I leave them out. If the onions are too bitter, I cook them a little in the bacon grease and then cool them before putting them in the salad. Let me know if you like it.
[Edited on 9/10/2008] 





 alinam
	
	Member
		
Total Posts:1548
Last Post:9/15/2008
Member Since:2/4/2006
I make a macaroni salad that is an adaptation of the one in the NBR that folks seem to really like. It has bacon in it which IMHO makes everything taste better. I do dry the pasta, but it was not a hassle and it was worth the end result. I think I posted this variation before but can't find it. Anyway in case you are interested here it is:

Adapted Best Creamy Macaroni Salad 8 servings
45 minutes 30 minutes prep
1 LB. Large elbow macaroni, cooked to desired tenderness
1/2 cup Celery thinly sliced (I cut stalks in half vertically before slicing)
1/4 cup Sweet onions finely diced *
1 Red sweet bell pepper small, finely diced
1/4-1/2 cup Pimento stuffed olives sliced
1/4 cup Fresh parsley minced (I use Italian)
¾ cups Miracle Whip (I used a bit less)
¾ cups Mayonnaise (I used a bit less)
2 tsps. Prepared yellow mustard
1tsp. Apple cider vinegar
1/4 cup Juice from 1 or 2 lemons (I used a bit less)
1/4 cup Diced sweet pickles (you can use 1/4-cup relish)
2 tsps. Sugar (I use Splenda)
1tsp. Kosher salt (Diamond)
1/2 tsp. White pepper (I prefer it to black)
1 TBs Celery seeds
1/2 LB Bacon, fried and crumbled

1.Bring 4 Quarts water to boil in a large pot and add 2 TBS. of Kosher salt. Stir in macaroni and cook until thoroughly done, 10 to 12 minutes. Drain the macaroni in a colander and rinse with cold water until cool. Shake the macaroni dry in the colander and spread it in an even layer on a rimmed baking sheet lined with paper towels. Let the macaroni dry for 3 minutes at least. Roll the macaroni n paper towels and transfer to a large bowl.

2.Mix cooled macaroni, celery, onions, bell pepper, parsley and green olives together in a large bowl.

3. In 4 cup measuring cup, (or a separate bowl) mix the mayonnaise, mustard, vinegar, lemon juice, diced pickles (or pickle relish), sugar (or Splenda), salt, pepper and celery seed, stirring well.

4. Pour dressing into the macaroni mixture and mix well.

5. Stir in the crumbled bacon.

6. Refrigerate for at least one hour and serve chilled.

For another variation, omit the green olives; add sliced black olives and a container of grape tomatoes.

* If I don't have any sweet onions, I mince regular onions and cook them lightly in the leftover grease from the bacon to take out the possible bitterness. Let them cool before adding to salad.
