AMY’S RICOTTA PIE ( FINALLY FABULOUS!!! )

Yield: Three 9” deep pie pan shaped pies
You will need one batch of pastry cream, chilled (4c. milk size test batch)

Cooked Rice Filling
1 1/2 c. hot water
1/2 c. converted rice
1 oz. soft butter
1/2 t. salt
1. Bring to a boil in a small saucepan with a tight lid.
2. Reduce heat to low. Cover tightly and cook for 30 minutes, until the water is
absorbed. Cool covered in the refrigerator.

Pasta Frolla Snyder
1 lb. cold butter, cut in thin slices
8 c. pastry flour
2 c. sugar
1 1/2 t. salt
1 1/2 t. baking powder
3/4 c. egg yolks (8 or 9 yolks)
1/4 c. cold water
1/2 c. heavy cream

1. Combine dry ingredients in the 20 qt. bowl with the paddle attachment.

2. "Cut in" the cold butter slices until it looks like fresh bread crumbs. Take off
mixer and remove paddle.

3. Whisk together the yolks, water and cream. Add to the dry mixture and toss
together till it forms a rough dough.

4. Weigh out three 8 oz. portions and pat each into a disk shape for lining the
pie tins. Plastic wrap and set aside. Divide the remaining dough into
rectangles to make the lattice. Pat to neaten the edges, then wrap. Chill all
dough overnight, before rolling, lining and cutting. When rolling, you will
need some flour on hand to get this sticky dough rolled out fairly thin!

Ricotta Filling
3 c. ricotta cheese
1/2 c. confectioner’s sugar
1/2 t. salt
1 1/4 c. SOFT cooked rice- see above (or wheatberries)
2 eggs, well beaten
4 c. set and chilled pastry cream
1/4 c. candied orange peels- optional (I like this pie simple with no orange)
1. Gently mix the ricotta, confectioner’s sugar and salt.
2. Add the rice, then the eggs, stirring gently.
3. Fold in the pastry cream.

To assemble Pies
- Divide filling evenly between the three pie shells.
- Egg wash rims.
- Cut thin lattice strips, at least ten per pie, or 30 altogether.
- Arrange five strips across each pie. Press down to adhere.
- Arrange five more strips over the top, criss-crossing diagonally.
- Trim the edges neatly, removing excess dough.
- Gently egg wash the lattice.
- Bake directly on oven shelf or pizza stone, about 45 minutes, until set.
- Cool completely before cutting.
- Store refrigerated but bring up to room temp or warmer for serving.


PASTRY CREAM

YIELD: 4 CUPS
4 C. Milk
4 egg yolks
2 whole eggs
3 oz. cornstarch
7 oz. sugar
2 oz. soft butter
1 T. vanilla
½ t. salt

1. In a heavy ALL CLAD saucepan, heat milk. Bring to a boil, then turn
off heat.

2. Whisk together yolks and egg in a medium bowl.

3. Sift the starch and sugar together into the eggs. Beat with a whisk
until completely smooth.

4. Temper the egg mixture by slowly whisking in the hot milk in a thin
stream.

5. Return the mixture to the large saucepan and bring to a boil,
SCRAPING THE BOTTOM and whisking constantly. When it
thickens and comes to a boil, remove from heat. Be careful the
bottom does not scorch!

6. Whisk in the butter, vanilla and salt. Mix until completely blended.

7. Strain the mixture through a strainer into a clean pan. Cover the
surface of the mixture completely with plastic wrap and refrigerate.