Authentic Guacamole
The keys to velvety, chunky-textured guacamole are the right avocado and a minimum of mashing.

The challenge: Guacamole has traveled a long road. Once a simple Mexican avocado relish, it has become one of America’s favorite party dips. Unfortunately, the journey has not necessarily been pleasant. The guacamole that abounds at restaurants and parties today often sacrifices the singular, extraordinary character of avocados--the culinary equivalent of velvet--by adding too many other ingredients. Even worse, the texture of the dip is often reduced to an utterly smooth, listless puree. We wanted to develop a recipe that put the avocado back where it belonged, at center stage.

The solution: The first thing we learned was that good guacamole depends on good avocados. We focused on the two most popular market varieties: the small, rough-skinned Haas, grown primarily in California and Mexico, and the Fuerte, grown mostly in Florida. Our tasters were unanimous in preferring the Haas, finding the Fuerte "too fruity," "sweet," and "watery." Good guacamole also depends on the ripeness of the avocados, many of which are rock hard when you buy them in the supermarket. This is fine, because avocados ripen off the tree; ripening can take from two to five days. You know a Haas avocado is ripe when the skin turns dark green to purply black and the fruit yields to a gentle squeeze when held in the palm of your hand.

Now having the right kind of ripe avocados, we needed only to settle on mixing method and a few complementary ingredients. Because we wanted a chunky guacamole, we opted for completely mashing only one of the three we were using in our recipe; we diced the other two into small chunks. We went fairly light on the remaining ingredients, the only absolutely necessary one being lime juice. It’s needed not only for flavor but to preserve the dip's green color.

CHUNKY GUACAMOLE

Makes 2 1/2 to 3 cups

To minimize the risk of discoloration, prepare the minced ingredients first so they are ready to mix with the avocados as soon as they are cut.

3 medium-sized, ripe avocados (preferably Haas)
2 tablespoons minced onion
1 medium garlic clove, minced
1 small jalapeño chile, minced (1 to 1 1/2 teaspoons)
1/4 cup minced fresh cilantro leaves
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin (optional)
2 tablespoons juice from 1 lime

1. Halve one avocado, remove pit, and scoop flesh into medium bowl. Mash flesh lightly with onion, garlic, jalapeño, cilantro, salt, and cumin (if using) with tines of a fork until just combined.

2. Halve and pit remaining two avocados, and prepare according to illustrations 1 and 2 below. Gently scoop out avocado into bowl with mashed avocado mixture.

3. Sprinkle lime juice over diced avocado and mix entire contents of bowl lightly with fork until combined but still chunky. Adjust seasoning with salt, if necessary, and serve. (Can be covered with plastic wrap, pressed directly onto surface of mixture, and refrigerated up to one day. Return guacamole to room temperature, removing plastic wrap at the last moment, before serving).

GUACAMOLE WITH BACON, SCALLIONS, AND TOMATO

Retired cooking teacher and Cook's friend Bernice Sisson inspired this variation.

Follow recipe for Chunky Guacamole, substituting 3 large scallions, sliced thin (about 1/3 cup), for onion and adding 6 slices cooked, drained, and crumbled bacon with 1 teaspoon rendered fat and half a medium tomato, seeded and diced small.

How to Halve and Pit an Avocado
1. Use dishtowel to hold avacado steady. Make 1/2-inch cross-hatch incisions in flesh with a dinner
knife, cutting down to but not through skin.
2. Separate diced flesh from skin using spoon inserted between skin and flesh, gently scooping out avocado cubes. 