Bouillabaisse Style Fish Stew

Serves 8 to 10.   Published September 1, 2001.  

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS:
For a bouillabaisse recipe that would make sense in the American kitchen—streamlined and economical—we simplified and improved homemade fish stock with fish frames from the fishmonger, chose appropriate and available seafood varieties, and topped it all off with a garlic-rubbed crouton and a nap of heady rouille.

If you decide to make the fish stock ahead, it must be used within 2 days or frozen and defrosted. Use only the freshest fish. Monkfish, sea bass, and ocean perch or red snapper make up our favorite combination, but you can create your own according to the related tasting, "Choosing Seafood for Bouillabaisse". The chopped vegetables for the stock must be fairly small (no larger than 1 inch in diameter) and evenly cut. The rouille must be made the day you are planning to serve the bouillabaisse.


Fish and Shellfish Marinade
8	ounces shell-on shrimp (small) (41/45), peeled and shells reserved for fish stock
8	ounces large sea scallops , side muscles removed and each scallop halved
1 1/2	pounds fish fillets , cut into 1- to 1 1/2-inch cubes (see note or related tasting for suggestions)
2	teaspoons sea salt or table salt
1/4	teaspoon red pepper flakes
3	cloves garlic , minced or pressed through garlic press
1/2	teaspoon saffron threads
1/3	cup shredded fresh basil leaves
4	tablespoons olive oil
3	tablespoons Pernod
Fish Stock
1	bulb fennel , chopped medium (about 2 cups)
1	 large carrot , chopped medium (about 1 cup)
2	 medium onions , chopped medium (about 2 cups)
4	tablespoons olive oil
3	 garlic heads, outer papery skin removed, but heads intact
1	bottle dry white wine (750ml) (preferably white Côtes de Provence)
2 (28-ounce) cans diced tomatoes with juice
2	 large leeks (white and green parts included), split lengthwise, then chopped, washed thoroughly, and drained (about 4 cups)
3	pounds fish frames , gills removed and discarded, frames rinsed and cut into 6-inch pieces
Reserved shrimp shells
1	bunch fresh parsley leaves , stems only
5	sprigs fresh thyme
2	 bay leaves
2	teaspoons whole black peppercorns
2	teaspoons sea salt or table salt
Orange zest from two oranges, removed in large strips with vegetable peeler
1/2	teaspoon saffron threads
Stew
2	pounds mussels , shells scrubbed and beards removed
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Combine all fish and shellfish marinade ingredients in large nonreactive bowl; toss well, cover flush with plastic wrap, and refrigerate 4 hours.

2. Meanwhile, stir fennel, carrot, onions, and oil together in 8-quart heavy-bottomed stockpot or Dutch oven. Cover pot and set over medium-low heat; cook, stirring frequently, until vegetables are fragrant, about 15 minutes. Place garlic in large heavy-duty plastic bag and seal. Smash garlic with rolling pin or meat pounder until flattened. Add smashed garlic to vegetables and continue to cook, stirring frequently, until vegetables are dry and just beginning to stick, about 15 minutes more. (Take care not to let garlic burn.) Add wine and stir to scrape pot bottom, then add tomatoes and their juices, leeks, fish frames, shrimp shells, parsley stems, thyme, bay leaves, peppercorns, salt, and 4 cups water. Bring to simmer over medium-high heat, reduce heat to medium-low, and simmer, pressing down on fish bones occasionally with wooden spoon to submerge, until stock is rich and flavorful, about 1 hour.

3. Strain stock through large fine-mesh strainer or chinois into large bowl or container (you should have about 9 cups); rinse and wipe out stockpot and return strained stock to pot. Bring stock to boil over high heat and simmer briskly until reduced to 8 cups, about 10 minutes. Off heat, add orange zest and saffron. Let stand 10 minutes to infuse flavors. Strain stock through mesh strainer and set aside.

4. Return fish broth to clean 8-quart stockpot and bring to rolling boil over high heat. Stir in marinated fish and shellfish along with mussels, cover pot, and return to simmer; simmer for 7 minutes, stirring a few times to ensure even cooking. Remove pot from heat, cover, and let stand until fish is cooked through and mussels have opened, about 2 minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper; ladle into bowls, and float one garlic-rubbed crouton topped with dollop of rouille in each bowl (see related recipes). Serve immediately.

ROUILLE FOR BOUILLABAISSE

Published September 1, 2001.  

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS:
For a bouillabaisse recipe that would make sense in the American kitchen—streamlined and economical—we simplified and improved homemade fish stock with fish frames from the fishmonger, chose appropriate and available seafood varieties, and top...(more)

MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP
INGREDIENTS
1	 large red bell pepper (about 9 ounces), roasted, peeled, seeded, and cut into large pieces (about 2/3 cup)
2	ounces country-style French bread , trimmed of crust and cut into large cubes (about 2 cups)
2	medium cloves garlic , minced finely or pressed through garlic press (about 2 teaspoons)
1/8	teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/2	cup olive oil
Table salt
INSTRUCTIONS
In workbowl of food processor fitted with steel blade, process roasted pepper, bread cubes, garlic, and cayenne until smooth, about 20 seconds. With machine running, drizzle olive oil through feed tube; process until rouille has thick, mayonnaise-like consistency. Season to taste with salt. Serve with bouillabaisse.


GARLIC-RUBBED CROUTONS

Published September 1, 2001.  

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS:
For a bouillabaisse recipe that would make sense in the American kitchen—streamlined and economical—we simplified and improved homemade fish stock with fish frames from the fishmonger, chose appropriate and available seafood varieties, and top...(more)

INGREDIENTS
1	loaf country-style French bread (about 1 pound), cut into ten 1/2-inch thick slices (remainder reserved for Rouille if using for bouillabaisse)
6	medium cloves garlic , peeled and halved
3	tablespoons olive oil
INSTRUCTIONS
Adjust oven rack (or broiler) to highest position and heat broiler. Arrange bread slices in single layer on baking sheet; broil until lightly toasted, about 1 1/2 minutes. Flip slices and rub second side of each slice with raw garlic, then brush with olive oil. Broil until light golden brown, about 1 1/2 minutes longer. Serve with bouillabaisse.


Firm
Chilean Sea Bass
Grouper
Haddock
Halibut
John Dory
Monkfish
Striped bass
Tilapia

Flaky
Hake
Ocean perch
Red snapper
Thai snapper


Shellfish
Mussels
Sea scallops
Shrimp


Not Recommended
These fish are not good choices for a bouillabaise:

Too Oily
Bluefish
Mackerel
Salmon


Incompatible Cooking Rates
Clams
Cod
Sole


Too Meaty
Mahi-mahi
Swordfish
Tuna
