Charcoal-Grilled Sausages with Onions

Published July 1, 2008.  From Cook's Illustrated.
WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS:
We wanted a foolproof grilled sausage recipe that would produce nicely browned links with juicy interiors, accompanied by tender, well-cooked vegetables. As a first step, we started the vegetables, then layered the raw sausages over the hot ve...(more)

SERVES 4
This recipe will work with any raw, uncooked sausage. Serve sausages as is or in toasted buns.
INGREDIENTS
2large onions, halved and cut pole to pole into 1/4-inch-thick slices
1teaspoon fresh thyme leaves
1/2teaspoon table salt
1/4teaspoon ground black pepper
13- by 9-inch disposable aluminum roasting pan
2pounds hot or sweet Italian sausages (8 to 12 links) (see note)
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Light large chimney starter filled with charcoal (6 quarts, or about 100 briquettes) and allow to burn until coals are fully ignited and partially covered with thin layer of ash, about 20 minutes. Build single-level fire by arranging coals evenly across bottom of grill. Position cooking grate over coals, cover grill, and heat until grate is hot, about 5 minutes; scrape grate clean with grill brush.
2. Meanwhile, combine onions, thyme, salt, and pepper in medium microwave-safe bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and microwave on high power until onions begin to soften and tips turn slightly translucent, 4 to 6 minutes, stirring once halfway through cooking (be careful of steam). Transfer onions to disposable roasting pan. Place sausages in single layer over onions and wrap roasting pan tightly with foil.
3. Place roasting pan in center of grill, cover grill, and cook 15 minutes. Move pan to one side of grill and carefully remove foil cover. Using tongs, place sausages on grate directly over coals. Grill sausages, uncovered, turning every 1 to 2 minutes, until golden brown on all sides, 5 to 7 minutes. Transfer sausages to platter and loosely tent with foil. Cover grill and continue cooking onions, stirring occasionally, until liquid evaporates and onions begin to brown, 5 to 10 minutes longer. Serve sausages, passing onions separately.
