Chicken Fajitas Indoors

1/3 cup lime juice (from 2 to 3 limes)
6 tablespoons vegetable oil 
3 medium cloves garlic , minced or pressed through garlic press (about 1 tablespoon)
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 1/2 teaspoons brown sugar 
1 jalapeño chile , seeds and ribs removed, chile minced
1 1/2 tablespoons minced fresh cilantro leaves 
Table salt and ground black pepper 
3 boneless, skinless chicken breasts (about 1 1/2 pounds), trimmed of fat, tenderloins removed, breasts pounded to 1/2-inch thickness
1 large red onion (about 14 ounces), peeled and cut into 1/2-inch-thick rounds (do not separate rings)
1 large red bell pepper (about 10 ounces), quartered, stemmed, and seeded
1 large green bell pepper (about 10 ounces), quartered, stemmed, and seeded
8 - 12 plain flour tortillas (6-inch)


Whisk together lime juice, 4 tablespoons oil, garlic, Worcestershire, brown sugar, jalapeño, cilantro, 1 teaspoon salt, and 3/4 teaspoon pepper. Reserve 1/4 cup marinade in small bowl; set aside. Add another teaspoon salt to remaining marinade. Place chicken in marinade; cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate 15 minutes.

Adjust  oven rack to upper-middle position (about 8 inches from heating element).

Brush onions and peppers with 2 tbsp oil and season with salt and pepper. Arrange onions and peppers (skin sides up) a baking sheet.

Remove chicken from marinade and pat dry with paper towels; discard marinade. Heat remaining 2 teaspoons oil in skillet over medium-high heat. Arrange chicken smooth side down in skillet; cook without moving, until well browned, about 3 minutes. Flip chicken; continue to cook until well browned, about 2 minutes. Reduce heat to medium and continue to cook, turning  once or twice, until chicken is no longer pink when cut into with paring knife or instant-read thermometer inserted in thickest part registers 160 degrees, 3 to 5 minutes longer. Transfer chicken to large plate and let rest 5 minutes.

While chicken is cooking, place baking sheet with vegetables in oven on upper rack. Broil vegetables until spottily charred and peppers are crisp-tender, 6 to 8 minutes. Transfer peppers to cutting board. Flip onion rounds and continue to broil until charred and tender, 2 to 4 minutes longer.

Separate onions and slice bell peppers lengthwise into 1/4-inch strips and place in bowl with onions. Add 2 tablespoons reserved unused marinade and toss well. Slice chicken into 1/4-inch strips and toss with remaining 2 tablespoons reserved marinade in separate bowl.
