Easy Chili Supper
Printer Friendly

Written: Mar 2007


    * Simple Beef Chili with Kidney Beans
    * Avocado-Orange Salad with Romaine and Lime-Cumin Dressing
    * Cream Cheese Brownies
    * All-Purpose Cornbread
    * Shopping List

Simple Beef Chili with Kidney Beans     Add to Favorites     Shopping List  
Good choices for condiments include diced fresh tomatoes, diced avocado, sliced scallions, chopped red onion, chopped cilantro leaves, sour cream, and shredded Monterey Jack or cheddar cheese. If you are a fan of spicy food, consider using a little more of the red pepper flakes or cayenne--or both. The flavor of the chili improves with age; if possible, make it a day or up to five days in advance and reheat before serving. Leftovers can be frozen for up to a month.
Makes about 3 quarts, serving 8 to 10
2 	tablespoons vegetable oil or corn oil
2 	medium onions , chopped fine (about 2 cups)
1 	red bell pepper , cut into 1/2-inch cubes
6 	medium cloves garlic , minced or pressed through garlic press (about 2 tablespoons)
1/4 	cup chili powder 
1 	tablespoon ground cumin 
2 	teaspoons ground coriander 
1 	teaspoon red pepper flakes 
1 	teaspoon dried oregano 
1/2 	teaspoon cayenne pepper 
2 	pounds 85 percent lean ground beef 
2 	(15-ounce) cans red kidney beans , drained and rinsed
	1 (28-ounce) can diced tomatoes , with juice
	1 can (28 ounces) tomato puree 
	Table salt 
2 	limes , cut into wedges
	


1. Heat oil in large heavy-bottomed nonreactive Dutch oven over medium heat until shimmering but not smoking, 3 to 4 minutes. Add onions, bell pepper, garlic, chili powder, cumin, coriander, pepper flakes, oregano, and cayenne; cook, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are softened and beginning to brown, about 10 minutes. Increase heat to medium-high and add half the beef; cook, breaking up pieces with wooden spoon, until no longer pink and just beginning to brown, 3 to 4 minutes. Add remaining beef and cook, breaking up pieces with wooden spoon, until no longer pink, 3 to 4 minutes.

2. Add beans, tomatoes, tomato puree, and 1/2 teaspoon salt; bring to boil, then reduce heat to low and simmer, covered, stirring occasionally, for 1 hour. Remove cover and continue to simmer 1 hour longer, stirring occasionally (if chili begins to stick to bottom of pot, stir in 1/2 cup water and continue to simmer), until beef is tender and chili is dark, rich, and slightly thickened. Adjust seasoning with additional salt. Serve with lime wedges and condiments if desired.

Slow Cooker Option: At the end of step 1, transfer the cooked beef mixture to a slow cooker; add the rest of the ingredients as directed in step 2. Cook the chili on the high setting for four hours.



Avocado-Orange Salad with Romaine and Lime-Cumin Dressing     Add to Favorites     Shopping List  

Serves 4 to 6
1/4 	cup lime juice from 2 limes
2 	small cloves garlic , minced
1 	medium jalapeño chile , minced (about 1 tablespoon)
1 	teaspoon cumin seed , toasted in small dry skillet over medium heat until fragrant and golden, about 4 minutes
1 	teaspoon grated orange zest 
1/4 	cup olive oil 
	Table salt and ground black pepper 
2 	medium heads romaine lettuce , leaves separated, washed, dried, and torn into small pieces (about 9 cups firmly packed)
1 	cup fresh cilantro leaves , washed, dried, and stemmed (about 1 quart)
1/2 	medium red onion , sliced thin
1 	avocado (preferably Haas), halved, pitted, and sliced 1/4-inch thick
2 	large oranges , segmented
	


1. Whisk lime juice, garlic, jalapeño, cumin, and orange zest in medium bowl; whisk in oil. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

2. Pour all but 2 tablespoons dressing over lettuce and cilantro; toss to coat. Toss onion and avocado in remaining dressing. Divide dressed greens among individual plates; arrange a portion of onion, avocado, and orange segments on greens. Serve immediately.



Cream Cheese Brownies     Add to Favorites     Shopping List  
Knowing when to remove a pan of brownies from the oven is the only difficult part about baking them. If you wait until an inserted toothpick comes out clean, the brownies are overcooked. But if a toothpick inserted in the middle of the pan comes out with fudgy crumbs, remove the pan immediately. If you are a nut lover, you can stir 1 cup toasted walnuts or pecans into the brownie batter. To melt the chocolate and butter in a microwave oven, microwave chocolate alone at 50 percent power for 2 minutes. Stir chocolate; add butter; and continue microwaving at 50 percent for another 2 minutes, stopping to stir the mixture after 1 minute. If chocolate is not entirely melted, microwave an additional 30 seconds at 50 percent power.
Makes 16 2-inch brownies
2/3 	cup unbleached all-purpose flour 
1/4 	teaspoon table salt 
1/2 	teaspoon baking powder 
2 	ounces unsweetened chocolate 
4 	ounces bittersweet chocolate or semisweet chocolate
1 	stick unsalted butter (8 ounces)
1 1/4 	cups granulated sugar 
2 1/2 	teaspoons vanilla extract 
3 	large eggs 
8 	ounces cream cheese at room temperature
1 	egg yolk 
	


1. Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position, and preheat oven to 325 degrees. Whisk flour, salt, and baking powder in a small bowl; set aside. Coat an 8-inch-square baking pan with cooking spray, and, fit an 8-by-16-inch sheet of aluminum foil in bottom of pan. (Foil overhangs both sides of the pan; use as handles to remove baked brownies from pan.) Coat foil with cooking spray.

2. In a medium heat-proof bowl set over a pan of almost simmering water, melt chocolate and butter, stirring occasionally until mixture is smooth. (Alternatively, melt chocolate and butter in microwave oven.) Remove melted chocolate mixture from heat; whisk in 1 cup sugar and 2 teaspoons vanilla; then whisk in 3 eggs, one at a time, fully incorporating each before adding the next. Continue whisking until mixture is completely smooth. Add dry ingredients; whisk until just incorporated.

3. In a small bowl, beat cream cheese with remaining 1/4 cup sugar, 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, and egg yolk until of even consistency.

4. Pour half the brownie batter into prepared pan. Drop half the cream cheese mixture, by spoonfuls, over batter. Repeat layering and swirling with remaining brownie batter and cream cheese filling. Use blade of a table knife or a spoon handle to gently swirl batter and cream cheese filling, creating a marbled effect.

5. Bake until edges of brownies have puffed slightly, center feels not quite firm when touched lightly, and a toothpick or cake tester inserted into center comes out with several moist, fudgy crumbs adhering to it, 50 to 60 minutes.

6. Cool brownies in pan on a wire rack for 5 minutes. Use foil sling handles to lift brownies from pan. Place brownies on wire rack; allow them to cool to room temperature. Refrigerate until chilled, at least 3 hours. (To hasten cooling, place brownies in the freezer for about 1 1/2 hours.) Cut into squares and serve. (Do not cut brownies until ready to serve. Whole bar can be wrapped in plastic wrap, then foil, and refrigerated up to 5 days.)



STEP BY STEP: No-Stick Cream Cheese Brownies


1. Fit a 16-by-8-inch sheet of foil in bottom of greased pan, leaving overhang to use as handles to remove baked brownies. Coat with cooking spray. 	
2. Pour half the brownie batter into prepared pan; then drop half the cream cheese mixture, by spoonfuls, over the batter.

3. Repeat with remaining batter and cream cheese mixture. Use a knife or spoon handle to gently swirl the batter and cream cheese filling. 	
4. After brownies have cooled in the pan for 5 minutes, use the foil sling handles to remove them from the pan; place on a wire rack for further cooling.
All-Purpose Cornbread     Add to Favorites     Shopping List  
Before preparing the baking dish or any of the other ingredients, measure out the frozen kernels and let them stand at room temperature until needed. When corn is in season, fresh cooked kernels can be substituted for the frozen corn. This recipe was developed with Quaker yellow cornmeal; a stone-ground whole-grain cornmeal will work but will yield a drier and less tender cornbread. We prefer a Pyrex glass baking dish because it yields a nice golden-brown crust, but a metal baking dish (nonstick or traditional) will also work. The cornbread is best served warm; leftovers can be wrapped in foil and reheated in a 350-degree oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
Makes One 8-inch Square
1 1/2 	cups unbleached all-purpose flour , (7 1/2 ounces)
1 	cup yellow cornmeal (5 1/2 ounces), see note
2 	teaspoons baking powder 
1/4 	teaspoon baking soda 
3/4 	teaspoon table salt 
1/4 	cup packed light brown sugar (1 3/4 ounces)
3/4 	cup frozen corn (3 1/2 ounces), thawed
1 	cup buttermilk 
2 	large eggs 
8 	tablespoons unsalted butter (1 stick), melted and cooled slightly
	


1. Adjust oven rack to middle position; heat oven to 400 degrees. Spray 8-inch-square baking dish with nonstick cooking spray. Whisk flour, cornmeal, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in medium bowl until combined; set aside.

2. In food processor or blender, process brown sugar, thawed corn kernels, and buttermilk until combined, about 5 seconds. Add eggs and process until well combined (corn lumps will remain), about 5 seconds longer.

3. Using rubber spatula, make well in center of dry ingredients; pour wet ingredients into well. Begin folding dry ingredients into wet, giving mixture only a few turns to barely combine; add melted butter and continue folding until dry ingredients are just moistened. Pour batter into prepared baking dish; smooth surface with rubber spatula. Bake until deep golden brown and toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, 25 to 35 minutes. Cool on wire rack 10 minutes; invert cornbread onto wire rack, then turn right side up and continue to cool until warm, about 10 minutes longer. Cut into pieces and serve.
