Firecracker Chicken

Serves 4

If you really like spicy foods, try adding another habanero or two; if you are spice-averse, substitute jalapeños. We like to drizzle the sauce over the chicken strips just before serving, but the sauce is just as good served on the side for dipping. Use any leftovers in our Firecracker Chicken Salad, (see related recipe).

Firecracker Sauce
1/2 	cup sliced pickled banana peppers , chopped fine, plus 1/4 cup pickling liquid
1/4 	cup fresh lemon juice 
1/4 	cup vegetable oil 
1/4 	cup yellow mustard 
3 	tablespoons dry mustard 
2 	tablespoons chili sauce 
2 	tablespoons brown sugar 
3 	cloves garlic , minced
1 	habanero chile , minced
4 	scallions , sliced thin

Chicken
6 	boneless, skinless chicken breasts (about 2 1/2 pounds), trimmed
2 	cups all-purpose flour 
1/2 	cup cornstarch 
1 	tablespoon table salt 
1 	teaspoon baking powder 
4 	large egg whites 
1 	cup vegetable oil 

1. For the sauce: Whisk ingredients together in large bowl.

2. For the chicken: Cover chicken breasts with plastic wrap and pound lightly with meat mallet until about 1/2 inch thick. Slice breasts in half lengthwise and transfer to large zipper-lock storage bag. Add 1/4 cup Firecracker Sauce to bag, seal, and gently squeeze bag to coat chicken with sauce. Refrigerate for 30 minutes (or up to 2 hours).

3. Meanwhile, in large bowl, combine flour, cornstarch, salt, and baking powder. Add 6 tablespoons Firecracker Sauce and, using hands, combine until mixture resembles coarse, wet sand.

4. In another large bowl, whisk egg whites until foamy. Remove chicken from marinade and pat dry with paper towels. Working with one strip at a time, dip chicken in egg whites and transfer to flour mixture, pressing lightly to adhere. Place chicken pieces on wire rack set on rimmed baking sheet and refrigerate 15 minutes (or up to 4 hours).

5. Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 200 degrees. Heat oil in large skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Carefully place half of chicken strips in oil and fry until golden brown and cooked through, 2 to 4 minutes per side. Transfer to baking sheet lined with paper towels and place in warm oven. Repeat with remaining chicken strips. Transfer chicken to platter, drizzle with remaining sauce, and serve.
	
Web Member Login
Username: Password:


FREE 14-Day Trial
Forgot Your Password?



RELATED LINKS

Tips & Techniques
Rinsing Chicken

Tips & Techniques
Taming the Heat of Chile Peppers

Tips & Techniques
Getting to Know Fresh Chiles

Tips & Techniques
Cutting Chicken Cutlets

Tips & Techniques
Freezing Chicken Cutlets

Equipment Ratings
Meat Pounders

Equipment Ratings
Bag Check - Food Storage Bags

Recipes
Firecracker Chicken Salad
	
