Keri's Blue Ribbon Cornbread
source:http://virtualweberbullet.coms

Ingredients List
1-1/2 cups plain cornmeal (not cornmeal mix or self-rising)
1/2 cup flour
1 Tablespoon baking powder (preferably Rumford)
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup sugar (up to 1/2 cup)
1-1/4 cup milk (fat-free works fine)
1/2 cup vegetable oil (can cut to 1/3 cup, if desired)
2 large eggs

Preheat oven to 400°F, placing pans in the oven while it heats. Keri uses a total of 4 pans: 3 cast iron cornstick pans, 1 cast aluminum cornstick pan, and 1 non-stick scone pan.

Blend dry ingredients in a large bowl. Blend milk, oil, and eggs in another bowl, then add to the dry ingredients. Blend until all is combined.

Remove hot pans from the oven one at a time and slip a small amount of Crisco or bacon drippings (about 1/4 teaspoon) into each stick form, brushing it to cover all surfaces well. Place pans back in the oven for a few minutes--you want them to be very hot.

Remove hot pan from the oven, set on a heat-proof surface, and using a tablespoon from your silverware drawer, put a generous spoonful of batter into each form. You should have enough batter for 24 cornsticks and 8 thin crusty wedges.

Bake at 400°F until golden brown on the tops, about 15 minutes for the sticks and about 20 minutes for the wedges.

To remove cornbread from the pan, gently ease the tines of a fork under the edges of the cornstick and carefully pry up. If the pan was preheated and greased well, it should pop right out.

If you prefer, bake the whole recipe in a 9-inch cast iron skillet for about 30 minutes and cut into wedges to serve, or use a 13x9 pan and cut into squares.

Keri does not recommend baking multiple batches with a single cornstick pan. When the pan cools between batches, it stands more of a chance of sticking. She suggests filling a single heated cornstick pan and putting the rest of the batter in a heated cast iron skillet.

Serve with pinto beans and fried taters, BBQ, or with just a cold glass of sweet milk.