Single-Crust Pie Dough

source: Cook's Country
yeild: Makes enough for one 9-inch pie

INGREDIENTS
1 1/4cups all-purpose flour, plus extra for rolling out the dough
1tablespoon sugar
1/2teaspoon salt
4tablespoons vegetable shortening, cut into 1/4-inch pieces and chilled
6tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 1/4-inch pieces and chilled
3–4tablespoons ice water
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Process flour, sugar, and salt in food processor until combined. Add chilled shortening and pulse until coarsely ground. Add chilled butter and pulse until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Transfer to large bowl.
2. Sprinkle 3 tablespoons water over flour mixture. Using rubber spatula, stir mixture until dough forms. If dough remains crumbly, add remaining 1 tablespoon water. Form dough into 4-inch disk, wrap tightly in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 1 hour or up to 2 days. (Dough can be frozen, wrapped tightly in plastic and aluminum foil, for up to 2 months. Thaw completely at room temperature before using.)
3. Let chilled dough soften slightly at room temperature, about 10 minutes. Working on lightly floured work surface, roll dough into 12-inch circle. Transfer dough to pie plate. Trim, fold, and crimp edges.
HOW TO MAKE A PARBAKED PIE CRUST FOR CREAM OR CUSTARD PIES

1. Cover unbaked pie shell with plastic wrap and refrigerate 40 minutes, then freeze 20 minutes. Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 375 degrees. Line chilled pie shell with two 12-inch squares of parchment paper, letting parchment lay over edges of dough. Top with pie weights and bake until surface of dough no longer looks wet, 20 to 25 minutes.
2. For partially baked crust, transfer pie shell to wire rack and carefully remove parchment and weights. For fully baked crust, carefully remove parchment and weights and continue to bake until crust is golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes. Pie crust may be cooled completely or used warm, according to particular recipe. (Fully baked pie crust can be stored at room temperature, wrapped in plastic, for 2 days.)