Masala Curry

1 lb chicken breast
1/4 medium onion, diced
2 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp dried ground chili powder(such as anaheim or new mexico)
1 lb paste tomatoes (roma or the like) or 1 can diced tomatoes
1 can coconut milk
2 medium potatoes
3 tbsp curry powder (or I'll tell you how to make your own later)
3 more tbsp curry powder (added at a different time)
1 clove garlic, minced
1 tsp ginger paste or 1/2 tsp dried ginger powder
1 cinnamon stick
1/2 cup curds (or use sour cream, I usually do, but traditionally, it's curds)
salt
heat of choice (I use half a tsp of Dave's Insanity because it heats it up real nice while letting the other flavors shine through, but use whatever neutral peppers you like - pulverized serrano (medium heat) or habanero (higher heat) work very well)
In a skillet add the olive oil, minced garlic, diced onion, 3 tbsp curry powder, chili powder, pinch of salt, and chicken. the mixture should coat the chicken breasts all over, and sear them until they are easy to cut. Cut the chicken into pieces no thicker than half an inch and no longer than 1 inch, so the curry will fully penetrate the meat. Cook the diced chicken thoroughly. Remove from heat and add ginger.
In a sauce pan add coconut milk (when you open the can, it will look like yogurt, scoop through the layer of seperation and dump that awesomeness in), diced tomatoes, the rest of the curry powder, two pinches of salt, and a cup of water. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat to a simmer, and add the chicken, cinnamon stick, and your heat. Simmer for about 20 minutes, or until you can break apart a peice of chicken and the liquid has penetrated it.
Finally, add the diced potatoes, your diary (curds or sour cream), your heat (peppers or sauce), and simmer once more until both the potatoes are fork soft and the starch has thickened your mix.
Fluff up some white or brown rice, ladle some of your super spicy (or mild, you wimp...) masala right over the top of it. Feel free to message me after you get out of rehab from your addiction to this recipe. I deny all responsibility from internal injuries from burning your tongue/stomach/intestines/hoo-ha... That is all
permalinkparent
[–]bman86 1 point 3 days ago
This is the recipe I use:
1/4 cup black peppercorns
2 tablespoons cardamom pods
1/2 cup coriander seeds
1/2 cup cumin seeds
1 stick of cinnamon
A few cloves
2 tablespoons of fennel seeds
Turmeric to taste (usually turmeric comes in pre-ground format. It's rare to find it fresh and even more rare to find it dried whole. So for this one ingredient, you'll probably be using it ground. Turmeric is an known anti-cancer agent, so I try to add turmeric as often as I can to many dishes!)
Source