Oven-Fried Onion Rings
  Add to Favorites       Shopping List

Written: 4/2006
We had the best results with kettle-cooked potato chips.

Makes 24 rings, serving 4 to 6
1/2 	cup all-purpose flour 
1 	large egg , at room temperature
1/2 	cup buttermilk , at room temperature
1/4 	teaspoon cayenne pepper 
	Table salt and ground black pepper 
30 	Saltine cracker 
4 	cups kettle-cooked potato chips , crumbled into smaller pieces
2 	large yellow onions , cut evenly into 1/2-inch-thick rounds
6 	tablespoons vegetable oil 
	


1. Adjust oven racks to lower-middle and upper-middle positions and heat oven to 450 degrees. Place 1/4 cup flour in shallow baking dish. Beat egg and buttermilk together in medium bowl. Whisk remaining 1/4 cup flour, cayenne, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper into buttermilk mixture. Pulse saltines and chips together in food processor until finely ground and place in separate shallow baking dish.

2. Pull apart the rings in each round, discarding any that are less than 2 inches in diameter. Working one at a time, dredge each onion ring in flour, shaking off excess. Dip in buttermilk mixture, allowing excess to drip back into bowl, then drop into crumb coating, turning ring to coat evenly. Transfer to large plate and repeat with remaining onion rings.

3. Pour 3 tablespoons oil onto each of two rimmed baking sheets. Place in oven and heat until just smoking, about 8 minutes. Carefully tilt heated sheets to coat evenly with oil, then arrange onion rings on sheets. Bake, flipping onion rings over and switching and rotating position of baking sheets halfway through baking, until golden brown on both sides, about 15 minutes. Transfer onion rings to plates lined with paper towels to drain briefly. Serve immediately.

MAKE AHEAD
Oven-Fried Onion Rings can be breaded in advance and refrigerated for up to an hour. Let them sit at room temperature for 30 minutes before baking; if baked straight from the fridge, the onions will not soften properly and will remain crunchy.






Home-Corned Beef and Cabbage, New England Style
  Add to Favorites       Shopping List

Written: 3/1997
If you prefer a leaner piece of meat, feel free to use the flat cut. In fact, we found more flat cut than point cut briskets in supermarket meat cases, so you’ll probably have to ask the meat department attendant or butcher to bring you a point cut. Leave a bit of fat attached for better texture and flavor.

The meat is cooked fully when it is tender, the muscle fibers have loosened visibly, and a skewer slides in with minimal resistance.

Serves 8 with leftovers
1/2 	cup kosher salt 
1 	tablespoon black peppercorns , cracked
3/4 	tablespoon ground allspice 
1 	tablespoon dried thyme 
1/2 	tablespoon paprika 
2 	bay leaves , crumbled
1 	beef brisket (fresh, 4 to 6 pounds), preferably point cut, trimmed of excess fat, rinsed and patted dry
7-8 	pounds vegetables , chosen from the categories below

Category 1 Vegetables
	carrots , peeled and halved crosswise, thin end halved lengthwise, thick end quartered lengthwise
	rutabagas (small), peeled and halved crosswise; each half cut into six chunks
	white turnips (medium), peeled and quartered
	new potatoes (small), scrubbed and left whole
	boiling onions , peeled and left whole

Category 2 Vegetables
	green cabbage (small head), uncored, blemished leaves removed, cut into six to eight wedges
	parsnips , peeled and halved crosswise, thin end halved lengthwise, thick end quartered lengthwise
	brussels sprouts , blemished leaves removed and left whole
	
Our home cure creates a dish that lives up to its full potential.


1. Mix salt and seasonings in small bowl.

2. Spear brisket about thirty times per side with meat fork or metal skewer. Rub each side evenly with salt mixture; place in 2-gallon-size zipper-lock bag, forcing out as much air as possible. Place in pan large enough to hold it (a jelly roll pan works well), cover with second, similar-size pan, and weight with two bricks or heavy cans of similar weight. Refrigerate 5 to 7 days, turning once a day.

3. Choose 7-8 pounds of vegetables of your choice from categories 1 and 2, prepared as described in the ingredient listing.

4. Rinse the brisket and pat it dry. Bring the brisket to boil with water to cover by 1/2 to 1 inch in large soup kettle or stockpot (at least 8 quarts), skimming any scum that rises to surface. Cover and simmer until skewer inserted in thickest part of brisket slides out with ease, 2 to 3 hours.

5. Heat oven to 200 degrees. Transfer meat to large platter, ladling about 1 cup cooking liquid over it to keep it moist. Cover with foil and set in oven.

6. Add vegetables from category 1 to kettle and bring to boil; cover and simmer until vegetables begin to soften, about 10 minutes. Add vegetables from category 2 and bring to boil; cover and simmer until all vegetables are tender, 10 to 15 minutes longer.

7. Meanwhile, remove meat from oven and cut across the grain into 1/4-inch slices.

8. Transfer vegetables to meat platter, moisten with additional broth, and serve.

9. Serve this dish with horseradish, either plain or mixed with whipped or sour cream, or with grainy mustard.



lassic Hash Browns
  Add to Favorites       Shopping List

Written: 9/1998
To prevent potatoes from turning brown, grate them just before cooking. For individual servings, simply divide the grated potatoes into four equal portions and reduce cooking time to 5 minutes per side. To vary flavor, add 2 tablespoons grated onion, 1 to 2 tablespoons herb of choice, or roasted garlic to taste, to the raw grated potatoes. You can also garnish the cooked hash browns with snipped chives or scallion tops just before serving.

Serves 4
1 	pound high-starch potatoes such as russets or Idahos, peeled, washed, dried, grated coarse, and squeezed dry (1 1/2 cups loosely packed grated potatoes)
1/4 	teaspoon table salt 
	Ground black pepper 
1 	tablespoon butter 
	


Breakfast/Brunch  Vegetables  Vegetarian 
See Illustrations Below: Making Hash Browns

1. Toss fully dried grated potatoes with salt and pepper in a medium bowl.

2. Meanwhile, heat half the butter in a 10-inch skillet over medium-high heat until it just starts to brown, then scatter potatoes evenly over entire pan bottom. Using a wide spatula, firmly press potatoes to flatten; reduce heat to medium and continue cooking until dark golden brown and crisp, 7 to 8 minutes.

3. Invert hash browns, browned side up, onto a large plate; add remaining butter to pan. Once butter has melted, slide hash browns back into pan. Continue to cook over medium heat until remaining side is dark golden brown and crisp, 5 to 6 minutes longer.

4. Fold the potato round in half; cook about 1 minute longer. Slide hash browns onto plate or cutting board, cut into wedges, and serve immediately.

Quick Cinnamon Buns with Buttermilk Icing
  Add to Favorites       Shopping List

Written: 5/2002
Melted butter is used in both the filling and the dough and to grease the pan; it’s easiest to melt the total amount (8 tablespoons) at once and measure it out as you need it. The finished buns are best eaten warm, but they hold reasonably well for up to 2 hours.

Makes 8 buns
1 	tablespoon unsalted butter , melted, for pan

Cinnamon-Sugar Filling
3/4 	cup dark brown sugar (packed, 5 1/4 ounces)
1/4 	cup granulated sugar (1 3/4 ounces)
2 	teaspoons ground cinnamon 
1/8 	teaspoon ground cloves 
1/8 	teaspoon table salt 
1 	tablespoon unsalted butter , melted

Biscuit Dough
2 1/2 	cups unbleached all-purpose flour (12 1/2 ounces), plus additional flour for work surface
2 	tablespoons granulated sugar 
1 1/4 	teaspoons baking powder 
1/2 	teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 	teaspoon table salt 
1 1/4 	cups buttermilk 
6 	tablespoons unsalted butter , melted

Icing
2 	tablespoons cream cheese , softened
2 	tablespoons buttermilk 
1 	cup confectioners' sugar (4 ounces)
	
You're not dreaming. Homemade cinnamon buns can be ready to eat less than an hour after you wake up.


Breakfast/Brunch  Quick Breads 
See Illustrations Below: Rolling Up Cinnamon Buns

1. Adjust oven rack to upper-middle position and heat oven to 425 degrees. Pour 1 tablespoon melted butter in 9-inch nonstick cake pan; brush to coat pan. Spray wire rack with nonstick cooking spray; set aside.

2. To make cinnamon-sugar filling: Combine sugars, spices, and salt in small bowl. Add 1 tablespoon melted butter and stir with fork or fingers until mixture resembles wet sand; set filling mixture aside.

3. To make biscuit dough: Whisk flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in large bowl. Whisk buttermilk and 2 tablespoons melted butter in measuring cup or small bowl. Add liquid to dry ingredients and stir with wooden spoon until liquid is absorbed (dough will look very shaggy), about 30 seconds. Transfer dough to lightly floured work surface and knead until just smooth and no longer shaggy.

4. Pat dough with hands into 12 by 9-inch rectangle. Following illustrations below, fill, roll, cut, and arrange buns in buttered cake pan. Brush with 2 tablespoons remaining melted butter. Bake until edges are golden brown, 23 to 25 minutes. Use offset metal spatula to loosen buns from pan; without separating, slide buns out of pan onto greased cooling rack. Cool about 5 minutes before icing.

5. To make icing and finish buns: While buns are cooling, line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper (for easy cleanup); set rack with buns over baking sheet. Whisk cream cheese and buttermilk in large nonreactive bowl until thick and smooth (mixture will look like cottage cheese at first). Sift confectioners’ sugar over; whisk until smooth glaze forms, about 30 seconds. Spoon glaze evenly over buns; serve immediately.

STEP BY STEP: Rolling Up Cinnamon Buns

1. Brush dough with 2 tablespoons melted butter. Sprinkle evenly with filling, leaving 1/2-inch border of plain dough around edges. Press filling firmly into dough. 	

2. Using bench scraper or metal spatula, loosen dough from work surface. Starting at long side, roll dough, pressing lightly, to form a tight log. Pinch seam to seal.

3. Roll log seam-side down and cut evenly into eight pieces. With hand, slightly flatten each piece of dough to seal open edges and keep filling in place. 	

4. Place one roll in center of prepared nonstick pan, then place remaining seven rolls around perimeter of pan.

