Pasta with Artichokes, Red Bell Pepper, and Goat Cheese
Cooks Illustrated
9/2007

To thaw the artichoke hearts, remove them from their package and place them in a medium bowl. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap, microwave for 5 minutes, and then drain. To complete this recipe in 30 minutes, put the water on to boil before assembling your ingredients.

Serves 4
1 	pound boneless, skinless chicken breasts , cut into thin strips
	Table salt and ground black pepper 
3 	tablespoons olive oil 
2 	(9-ounce) packages frozen artichoke hearts , thawed and drained
1 	red bell pepper 
8 	garlic cloves , minced
1/4 	teaspoon red pepper flakes 
2 	teaspoons minced fresh oregano leaves  
1/2 	cup dry white wine 
1 1/2 	cup low-sodium chicken broth 
2 	teaspoons cornstarch , dissolved in one 1 tablespoon water
1/2 	pound penne pasta (2 1/2 cups)
1 	cup crumbled goat cheese 


Making the Minutes Count: While the artichokes are thawing in the microwave, get a jump on prepping the chicken. Then, while the artichokes and peppers cook, prep the remaining ingredients.

1. Boil Water for Penne: Bring 3 quarts water to boil in large pot.

2. Sauté Chicken: Season chicken with salt and pepper. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in 12-inch nonstick skillet over high heat until just smoking. Add chicken, spread into single layer, and cook without stirring for 1 minute. Stir chicken and continue to cook until most, but not all, of pink color has disappeared and chicken is lightly browned around edges, about 2 minutes longer. Transfer chicken to clean bowl and set aside.

3. Make Sauce: Add remaining 2 tablespoons oil to skillet and return to high heat until shimmering. Add artichokes, red pepper, and 1/4 teaspoon salt, and cook until artichokes are lightly browned, about 8 minutes. Stir in garlic, red pepper flakes, and oregano and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Stir in wine and cook until nearly evaporated, about 2 minutes. Stir in broth and dissolved cornstarch mixture and simmer until slightly thickened, about 2 minutes. Remove skillet from heat, cover, and set aside.

4. Cook and Drain Penne: Add penne and 1 tablespoon salt to boiling water and cook, stirring often, until al dente. Reserve 1/2 cup cooking water, then drain penne and return penne to pot.

5. Toss Penne with Chicken and Sauce: Add chicken into sauce in skillet, and simmer until chicken is cooked through, about 1 minute. Stir sauce mixture and goat cheese into penne. Season to taste with salt and pepper and serve, adding reserved pasta cooking water as needed to loosen sauce.



