Peach Cobbler with Frozen Peaches
Published: November 1, 2005
Serves 6

Start defrosting the peaches about 2 hours before assembling and baking the cobbler.
INGREDIENTS

Filling
2 pounds  frozen peaches 
1/4 cup  granulated sugar (1 3/4 ounces)
1 teaspoon  cornstarch 
1 tablespoon  lemon juice from 1 lemon
Pinch  table salt 

Biscuit Topping
1  cup  unbleached all-purpose flour (5 ounces)
3  tablespoons  granulated sugar , plus 1 additional teaspoon
3/4  teaspoon  baking powder 
1/4  teaspoon  baking soda 
1/4  teaspoon  table salt 
5  tablespoons  unsalted butter (cold), cut into 1/4-inch cubes
1/3  cup  plain whole-milk yogurt 

1. Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 425 degrees.

2. For the filling: Defrost peaches completely in colander. Gently toss peaches and sugar together in large bowl; let stand for 30 minutes, tossing several times. Drain peaches in colander set over large bowl. Whisk 2 tablespoons of drained juice (discard extra), cornstarch, lemon juice, and salt together in small bowl. Toss peach juice mixture with peach slices and transfer to 8-inch-square glass baking dish. Bake until peaches begin to bubble around edges, about 15 to 20 minutes.

3. For the topping: While peaches are baking, in food processor, pulse flour, 3 tablespoons sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt to combine. Scatter butter over and pulse until mixture resembles coarse meal, about ten 1-second pulses. Transfer to medium bowl; add yogurt and toss with rubber spatula until cohesive dough is formed. (Don't overmix dough or biscuits will be tough.) Break dough into 6 evenly sized but roughly shaped mounds and set aside.

4. To assemble and bake: When peaches bubble around edges, remove baking dish from oven and place dough mounds on top, spacing them at least 1/2 inch apart (they should not touch). Sprinkle each mound with portion of remaining 1 teaspoon sugar. Bake until topping is golden brown, about 18 minutes. Cool cobbler on wire rack until warm, about 20 minutes; serve.