Pecan Pie
Patiently sleuthing through dozens of recipe variations, we finally create a pie with silky smooth texture, rich pralinelike flavor, and a crisp crust.

Problem:
Pecan pies can be overwhelmingly sweet, with no real pecan flavor, and have a curdled, wet filling.

Goal:
To create a recipe for a not-too-sweet pie with a foolproof, smooth-textured filling.

Solution:
Decrease the sugar, add hot filling to a hot prebaked crust, and cook in a slow oven until almost done, allowing residual heat to finish the baking.


PERFECT PECAN PIE

Serves 8

If you want warm pie, cool the pie thoroughly, then cut and warm it in a 250-degree oven for about twenty minutes.

1 9-inch baked pie shell
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 cup packed dark brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
3/4 cup light corn syrup
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 cups pecans (8 ounces), toasted and chopped into small pieces

1. Adjust oven rack to center position, and heat oven to 275 degrees. Place pie shell in oven if not already warm.

2. Melt butter in medium heatproof bowl set in skillet of water maintained at just below simmer. Remove bowl from skillet; mix in sugar and salt with wooden spoon until butter is absorbed. Beat in eggs, then corn syrup and vanilla. Return bowl to hot water; stir until mixture is shiny and warm to the touch, about 130 degrees. Remove from heat; stir in pecans.

3. Pour mixture into warm shell; bake until center feels set yet soft, like gelatin, when gently pressed, 50 to 60 minutes. Transfer pie to rack; let cool completely, at least 4 hours. Serve pie at room temperature or warm, with lightly sweetened whipped cream or vanilla ice cream.

TRIPLE CHOCOLATE CHUNK PECAN PIE

Serves 8

1 9-inch baked pie shell
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 1-inch pieces
3/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1/2 cup light corn syrup
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup pecans (4 ounces), toasted and chopped into small pieces
2 ounces each semisweet chocolate, milk chocolate, and white chocolate, cut into 1/4-inch pieces

Follow recipe for Perfect Pecan Pie, scattering chocolate pieces over pecan mixture once it has been poured into shell, then gently pressing them into filling with back of spoon. Increase baking time to 55 to 65 minutes.

BUTTERMILK PECAN PIE WITH RAISINS

Serves 8

To make a buttermilk chess pie, omit the nuts and raisins. Serve at room temperature or lightly chilled.

1 9-inch baked pie shell
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 1/3 cups granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
2/3 cup buttermilk
1/2 cup pecans (2 ounces), toasted and chopped into small pieces
1/2 cup raisins, chopped fine

Follw recipe for Perfect Pecan Pie, beating in buttermilk for the corn syrup and vanilla. Stir in raisins along with pecans.

MAPLE PECAN PIE

Serves 8

More liquid than corn syrup, maple syrup yields a softer, more custardlike pie. Toasted walnuts can be substituted for pecans.

1 9-inch baked pie shell
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 1-inch pieces
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
1 cup pure maple syrup, preferably, Grade B or Grade A dark amber
1 1/2 cups pecans (6 ounces), toasted and chopped into small pieces

Follow recipe for Perfect Pecan Pie, beating in maple syrup for the corn syrup and vanilla.

PIE SHELL FOR PECAN PIE

For a 9-inch single pie shell

1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour, plus extra for dough and surface
2 tablespoons confectioners’ sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
8 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/4-inch pats
2 tablespoons vegetable shortening, frozen solid and cut into small pieces
1 large chilled egg white, thoroughly mixed with ice water (about 2 tablespoons) to equal 1/4 cup
1 large egg yolk beaten with 1/8 teaspoon water

1. Mix flour, sugar, and salt in food processor fitted with steel blade. Scatter butter and shortening over dry ingredients and pulse until mixture resembles coarse cornmeal, 10 to 15 seconds. Turn mixture into medium bowl.

2. Sprinkle egg white mixture over flour mixture and, with blade of rubber spatula, use folding motion to mix. Press down on dough with broad side of spatula until dough sticks together. Shape dough into ball with hands, then flatten into 4-inch disk. Dust dough lightly with flour, wrap tightly in plastic wrap, and place in refrigerator for at least 1 hour or up to 2 days.

3. Roll dough on lightly floured surface into 13-inch circle and transfer to 9-inch pie pan, preferably glass. Press dough into corners and sides of pan, being careful not to stretch dough. Trim edges of dough to make 1/2-inch overhang. Tuck overhanging dough under so that folded edge is flush with rim of pan. Flute edge.

4. Chill shell until firm, about 1 hour. Prick sides and bottom with fork and line entire shell with heavy-duty aluminum foil, pressing foil firmly against shell and extending it over fluted rim. Prick foil with fork and return shell to refrigerator while oven is heating.

5. Adjust oven rack to center position and heat oven to 400 degrees. Bake, pressing once or twice with mitt-protected hands, if necessary, to flatten any puffing, until crust is firmly set, about 15 minutes. Remove foil and continue to bake until bottom begins to color, about 10 minutes longer. Remove from oven, brush sides and bottom with egg yolk, and return to oven until yolk glazes over, about 1 minute longer.