Pork loin braised in milk

INGREDIENTS

1/4 pound salt pork, cut into 1/2-inch chunks
1 boneless pork loin roast (2 1/4 to 2 1/2 pounds), center-cut, tied at even intervals along the length with 5 pieces of butcher's twine
1/2 teaspoon table salt
1 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 medium onion, halved
8 medium cloves garlic, peeled and left whole
1 medium carrot, peeled and halved lengthwise
1 medium rib celery, halved lengthwise
1 bay leaf
1 sprig fresh rosemary, or fresh thyme
3 1/2 cups whole milk
1/3 cup white wine
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Adjust an oven rack to the middle position and heat the oven to 325 degrees. Place the salt pork in a large, ovenproof Dutch oven over medium-high heat and cook until some of the fat is rendered, about 4 minutes. Dry the roast thoroughly with paper towels, then season it generously with salt and pepper and place it in the pot, fat-side down. Cook, turning occasionally, until the roast begins to brown, about 6 minutes. Add the onion, garlic, carrot, celery, bay leaf, and rosemary (or thyme) and continue cooking until the pork is well browned on all sides, about 6 minutes longer. Add the milk and bring to a simmer.

2. Transfer the pot to the oven, partially cover with the lid, and cook, turning occasionally, until the pork is tender and registers 150 degrees on an instant-read thermometer, the milk is reduced by half, and light brown clumps of milk solids appear, about 1 hour.

3. Transfer the pork loin to a platter and tent with aluminum foil. Using a slotted spoon, remove and discard the salt pork, onion, carrot, celery, bay leaf, and rosemary. Set the pot over high heat, add the wine, and cook, scraping up any browned bits with a spoon, until the sauce reduces to about 2 cups, 7 to 10 minutes. If you are straining the sauce, pour it through a fine-mesh strainer into a serving bowl. If you are pureeing it, transfer it to a blender and puree until smooth, then transfer to a serving bowl. If you are leaving it chunky, simply transfer it to a serving bowl.

4. Cut the pork crosswise into 1/2-inch thick slices and arrange them on the platter. Drizzle 1/2 cup of the sauce over the sliced pork and serve immediately, with more sauce passed separately.