 Potted Shrimp (an appetizer from Make-Ahead Meals)
For some of us here in the test kitchen, potted shrimp was commonplace on our family tables around the holiday season. Serve this spread with toasted slices of baguette or toast points. The potted shrimp can also be used as a compound butter to add flavor to cooked fish, chicken, or even pasta.

Makes about 2 1/4 cups

1 pound extra-large shrimp (21 to 25 per pound), peeled and deveined
Salt and ground black pepper
1/8 teaspoon sugar
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 12 pieces
1 medium shallot, minced (about 3 tablespoons)
1/4 cup plus 1 teaspoon dry sherry
2 tablespoons plus 1/2 teaspoon juice from 1 lemon
Pinch cayenne pepper

1. Pat shrimp dry with paper towels, then toss with 1/4 teaspoon salt, 1/4 teaspoon pepper, and sugar. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in 12-inch skillet over high heat until just smoking. Add half of shrimp, quickly distribute into single layer, and cook without moving for 1 minute. Stir shrimp and continue to cook until slightly curled and cooked through, about 1 minute longer. Transfer shrimp to medium bowl. Return skillet to high heat and repeat with remaining tablespoon oil and remaining shrimp; transfer to bowl.
2. Add 1 tablespoon butter to skillet and melt over medium-high heat until foaming subsides. Add shallot and cook until softened, about 2 minutes. Stir in 1/4 cup sherry, 2 tablespoons lemon juice, and cayenne and cook until mixture is slightly syrupy, about 2 minutes.
3. Process shrimp with any accumulated juice, sherry mixture, remaining teaspoon sherry, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice in food processor until mixture is finely chopped, about 6 pulses.
4. With the food processor running, add remaining butter 1 piece at a time and continue to process until mixture is smooth, about 2 minutes, stopping to scrape down sides of bowl as needed. Season mixture with salt and pepper to taste. Transfer to clean bowl and smooth top.
5. To Store: Lay plastic wrap flush to surface and refrigerate for up to 3 days.
6. To Serve: Let potted shrimp sit at room temperature until slightly softened, about 30 minutes, before serving.
