Tagliatelle With Artichokes And Olive Oil For Two
From Cook's Illustrated | September/October 2014

Add to Favorites
Shopping list
Email
Print
WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS:
Jarred artichoke hearts and tagliatelle make a quick and elegant dinner. We slice the leaves from jarred artichoke hearts and then give them a quick soak to temper the harsh flavors they pick up from the brine. We cut the hearts in half and then dry them well so that they can be easily browned… read more

SERVES 2

We prefer jarred artichoke hearts labeled “baby” or “cocktail” that are 1 1/2 inches or shorter in length. Larger artichoke hearts tend to have fibrous leaves. If you are using larger hearts, trim the top 1/4 to 1/2 inch from the leaves. Do not use marinated or oil-packed artichoke hearts. You’ll need two 9.9-ounce jars of artichokes for this recipe. The anchovy adds depth without imparting a fishy taste; don’t omit it. Tagliatelle is a long, flat, dry egg pasta that is about 1/4 inch wide. Pappardelle can be substituted for the tagliatelle.

INGREDIENTS

1 1/2 cups jarred whole artichoke hearts packed in water, preferably baby or cocktail size
1 slice hearty white sandwich bread, torn into 1-inch pieces
3 1/2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese, plus extra for serving
Salt and pepper
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 anchovy fillet, rinsed, patted dry, and minced
1/4 teaspoon dried oregano
Pinch red pepper flakes
1/4 cup dry white wine
1 tablespoon heavy cream
6 ounces tagliatelle
2 tablespoons minced fresh parsley
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon zest
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Cut leaves from artichoke hearts. Cut hearts in half and dry with paper towels. Place leaves in bowl and cover with water. Let leaves stand for 15 minutes. Drain well.

2. Pulse bread in food processor until finely ground, 7 to 10 pulses. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in 8-inch nonstick skillet over medium heat until shimmering. Add bread crumbs and cook, stirring constantly, until crumbs begin to brown, 2 to 4 minutes. Add 2 tablespoons Parmesan and continue to cook, stirring constantly, until crumbs are golden brown, 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer crumbs to bowl and season with salt and pepper to taste. Wipe out skillet.

3. Heat 1/2 tablespoon oil in now-empty skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add artichoke hearts and pinch salt; cook, stirring frequently, until hearts are spotty brown, 5 to 7 minutes. Add garlic, anchovy, oregano, and pepper flakes; cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Stir in wine and cream and bring to simmer. Remove skillet from heat and stir in artichoke leaves. Set aside.

4. Meanwhile, bring 2 quarts water to boil in large pot. Add pasta and 1/2 tablespoon salt and cook, stirring often, until al dente. Reserve 3/4 cup cooking water, then drain pasta and return it to pot. Stir in artichoke sauce, remaining 2 tablespoons Parmesan, 1/3 cup reserved cooking water, remaining 2 tablespoons oil, parsley, and lemon zest. Adjust consistency with remaining reserved cooking water as needed. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve, passing bread-crumb mixture and extra Parmesan separately.

