Ultimate Smoky Seven-Layer Dip

Serves 8 to 10

This recipe is usually served in a clear dish so you can see the layers. For a crowd, double the recipe and serve in a 13 by 9-inch glass baking dish. If you don't have time to make fresh guacamole as called for, simply mash 3 avocados with 3 tablespoons lime juice and 1/2 teaspoon salt.
4 	large tomatoes , cored, seeded, and chopped fine
2 	jalapeño chiles , seeded and minced
3 	tablespoons minced fresh cilantro 
6 	scallions , 2 minced and 4 with green parts sliced thin (white parts discarded)
2 	tablespoons fresh lime juice plus 2 teaspoons, from 2 limes
1/4 	teaspoon salt 
1 	can black beans (16-ounces), drained but not rinsed
1 - 3 	teaspoons minced chipotle chiles in adobo 
2 	cloves minced garlic 
3/4 	teaspoon chili powder 
1 1/2 	cups sour cream 
4 	cups shredded Pepper Jack cheese 
3 	cups Chunky Guacamole 
4 	slices cooked bacon , crumbled

1. Combine tomatoes, jalapeños, cilantro, minced scallions, and 2 tablespoons lime juice in medium bowl. Stir in 1/8 teaspoon salt and let stand until tomatoes begin to soften, about 30 minutes. Strain mixture into bowl and discard liquid.

2. Pulse black beans, chiles, garlic, remaining lime juice, chili powder, and remaining salt in food processor until it resembles chunky paste. Transfer to bowl and wipe out food processor. Pulse sour cream and 2 1/2 cups cheese until smooth. Transfer to separate bowl.

3. Spread bean mixture evenly over bottom of 8-inch square glass baking dish or 1-quart glass bowl. Spread sour cream mixture evenly over bean layer, and sprinkle evenly with remaining cheese. Spread guacamole over cheese and top with tomato mixture. Sprinkle with sliced scallions and bacon and serve with tortilla chips. (Dip can be refrigerated for up to 24 hours. Let dip stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)
	
Web Member Login
E-mail:
Password:


FREE 14-Day Trial
Forgot Your Password?



RELATED LINKS

Tips & Techniques
Mincing Chiles

Tips & Techniques
Juicing Citrus

Recipes
Chunky Guacamole

Recipes
Ultimate Seven Layer Dip
	