 All-Occoasion Downy Yellow Butter Cup Cake

INGREDIENTS

3 large egg yolks	1.75 fluid ounces	2 ounces	56 grams
.5 cup milk diveded	4.25 ounces 121 grams
1 1/8 teaspoons vanilla 5 grams
1.5 cups sifted cake flour 5.25 ounces 150 grams
3/4 cups sugar 5.25 ounces 150 grams
2 teaspoon baking powder	10 grams
1/2 teaspoon salt 5 grams
6 tablespoons unsalted butter (must be softened) 3 ounces 85 grams
 
PREPARATION

Preheat the oven to 350°F.

In a medium bowl lightly combine the yolks, 2T cup milk, and vanilla.
In a large mixing bowl combine the dry ingredients and mix on low speed for 30 seconds to blend. Add the butter and the remaining  milk. Mix on low speed until the dry ingredients are moistened. Increase to medium speed (high speed if using a hand mixer) and beat for 1 1/2 minutes to aerate and develop the cake's structure. Scrape down the sides. Gradually add the egg mixture in 3 batches, beating for 20 seconds after each addition to incorporate the ingredients and strengthen the structure. Scrape down the sides.

Scrape the batter into the prepared pans and smooth the surface with a spatula. The pans will be about 1/2 full. Bake 25 to 35 minutes or until a tester inserted near the center comes out clean and the cake springs back when pressed lightly in the center. The cakes should start to shrink from the sides of the pans only after removal from the oven.

Let the cakes cool in the pan on racks for 10 minutes. Loosen the sides with a small metal spatula and invert onto greased wire racks. To prevent splitting, reinvert so that the tops are up and cool completely before wrapping airtight.


Chocolate Frosting:
5 1/2 ounces unsalted butter, room temperature
1 ounce mayonnaise
3 ounces semi-sweet chocolate, melted and cooled slightly
8 ounces powdered sugar
Pinch kosher salt

Chocolate Frosting:
Beat the butter and mayonnaise in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, on high, until light and fluffy, 3 to 4 minutes. With the mixer on low, slowly add the melted chocolate. Continue mixing on low speed until all of the chocolate is incorporated, stopping to scrape down the sides of the bowl as needed.

Turn off the mixer and add one-third of the sugar. Mix on low to combine, stopping to scrape down the sides of the bowl. Repeat until all of the sugar has been incorporated. Add the salt and continue to beat until the frosting is smooth and lightens slightly in color, 2 to 3 minutes.