Apple Crumble
Serves 4 to 6

Filling
1/2 teaspoon cornstarch 
4 teaspoons fresh lemon juice 
1 1/2 pounds Granny Smith apples (about 3 medium), peeled and cut into 1/2-inch cubes (about 4 cups)
1 1/2 pounds Golden Delicious apples (about 3 medium), peeled and cut into 1/2-inch cubes (about 4 cups)
2/3 cup granulated sugar 
Pinch table salt 
Pinch ground cinnamon 
Pinch ground nutmeg 

Topping
1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour (5 ounces)
1/4 cup granulated sugar (1 3/4 ounces) plus 1 tablespoon
1/4 cup packed brown sugar (light or dark), 1 3/4 ounces
1/8 teaspoon table salt 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
6 tablespoons unsalted butter , cut into 6 pieces and very soft
1/2 cup sliced almonds 

Adjust oven racks to lower and middle positions; heat oven to 350 degrees.

FOR THE FILLING: Meanwhile, combine cornstarch and lemon juice in large bowl until cornstarch is dissolved. Add apples, sugar, salt, cinnamon, and nutmeg; toss to combine. Transfer mixture to 8-inch-square glass baking dish. Cover tightly with foil and set aside.

FOR THE TOPPING: Combine flour, sugars (reserving 1 tablespoon granulated sugar), and salt in workbowl of food processor; drizzle vanilla over top. Pulse to combine, about five 1-second pulses. Add butter and half of almonds; process until mixture clumps together into large, crumbly balls, about 30 seconds, pausing halfway through to scrape down sides of workbowl. Sprinkle remaining almonds over mixture and combine with 2 quick pulses. Transfer mixture to parchment-lined baking sheet and spread into even layer (mixture should break up into roughly 1/2-inch chunks, with some smaller, loose bits). Place topping mixture on middle rack in oven and apple filling mixture on lower rack. Bake topping until chunks are lightly browned and firm, about 20 minutes. Remove both topping and apples from oven.

TO ASSEMBLE AND BAKE:Remove foil from apple filling and gently stir. Grasping edges of parchment paper (following "Transferring the Baked Crumble" illustrations 1 and 2 below) slide topping over apples and spread into even layer with spatula, packing down lightly and breaking up any very large pieces. Sprinkle remaining tablespoon sugar over top and place on middle oven rack. Bake until well browned and fruit is tender and bubbling around edges, about 25 minutes. Cool on wire rack until warm, at least 15 minutes; serve.

