12 oz syrup, honey, or corn syrup (~ 1c), or 14 oz maple syrup (~ 1 1/4 cups)
    Heat to 230F
 
6 oz egg white (~5 eggs)
    Whip to stiff peaks
    When at 240-250°, add. Whip unil thick and cooled to 85° (~4 minutes)
    
1/4t Kosher Salt.
12 oz Butter, room tempature
    Add salt, butter 2T at time.

1 1/2t Vanilla
    Speed medium low, add in.
 
 
1 oz rum
Banana Powder
 
    Shut off and scrap bowl. Re-whip a few seconds more; if problems arise, consult the troubleshooting guide below.
roubleshooting: The ideal working temperature of Italian buttercream is approximately 70°F (21°C). At this temperature, it should be creamy, smooth, and light and should weigh about 6 ounces (170g) per cup. If too cold, it will be denser, potentially with a greasy, curdled, or wet texture. If too warm, it may be too soft, runny, or soupy for use.

If buttercream is a few degrees too warm, it can be refrigerated for 10 minutes or chilled in an ice bath for a few minutes to cool. If buttercream is too cold, it can be placed over a steaming water bath or open flame for a few seconds, just until you see the edges melting slightly; alternatively, remove 1/2 cup buttercream, melt it completely, then add it back.

In either case, after warming or cooling to adjust the temperature, re-whip the buttercream for at least 3 minutes on medium-high speed before reevaluating, as it takes time for the temperature to homogenize from edge to center. The texture and consistency can continue to be adjusted as needed until the buttercream is light, fluffy, and easy to spread, with no hint of soupiness, melt, stiffness, or curdling.

Once the buttercream's texture has been properly adjusted, grind the freeze-dried bananas in a food processor until powdery and fine. Add this powder to the frosting, and re-whip until well combined. Reduce speed to low and drizzle in the rum. Scrape the bowl and whisk attachment; whip a minute more to ensure no unmixed trace of banana powder remains. Use immediately or transfer to an airtight container and refrigerate until needed, up to 1 week. The flavor will intensify slightly over the course of 24 hours. Thaw chilled buttercream to about 70°F (21°C), and re-whip before use.