Beatty's Chocolate Cake

Ingredients:

Butter, for greasing the pans
115 grams all-purpose flour, plus more for pans (half of 1 3/4 cup)
1 cups (110g) sugar
1/3 cups good cocoa powder (half of 3/4 cup)
1 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup buttermilk, shaken
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 extra-large eggs, at room temperature
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup freshly brewed hot coffee


Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Butter two 6-inch x 2-inch round cake pans. Line with parchment paper, then butter and flour the pans.

Sift the flour, sugar, cocoa, baking soda, baking powder, and salt into the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment and mix on low speed until combined. In another bowl, combine the buttermilk, oil, eggs, and vanilla. With the mixer on low speed, slowly add the wet ingredients to the dry. With mixer still on low, add the coffee and stir just to combine, scraping the bottom of the bowl with a rubber spatula. Pour the batter into the prepared pans and bake for 35 to 40 minutes, until a cake tester comes out clean. Cool in the pans for 30 minutes, then turn them out onto a cooling rack and cool completely.

Place 1 layer, flat side up, on a flat plate or cake pedestal. With a knife or offset spatula, spread the top with frosting. Place the second layer on top, rounded side up, and spread the frosting evenly on the top and sides of the cake.



4.5 ounces bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
2.75 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
2.75 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cups (3.5 ounces) confectioners’ sugar, sifted
2 tablespoons unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
Pinch of salt
1/3 cup sour cream

1. Melt the chocolate in a heat-proof bowl set over a pot of simmering water. Set aside to cool until just barely warm.

2. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the cream cheese and butter on medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3-4 minutes. Gradually mix in the confectioners’ sugar, cocoa powder and salt. Beat in the melted and cooled chocolate and then the sour cream. Continue beating until the mixture is smooth and well blended. Frost cupcakes immediately.


