Best Ever Marinated Shrimp
  
1 lemon, quartered
30 ice cubes
1 pounds medium to large shrimp in shells 
1 large onion, thinly sliced
7 bay leaves
1 cup good olive oil
2 tablespoons white vinegar
2 tablespoons capers, drained
2 tablespoons caper juice
2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce
4 dashes hot pepper sauce, optional

Note: This dish should be started the day before serving.

Directions:

In a large pot, combine 6 cups of the water, seafood seasoning, 1½ teaspoons salt, quartered onion and lemon; bring to a boil. Simmer over low heat for about 4 minutes. Scoop out 2 cups of this flavored liquid and place in a large mixing bowl. Add ice cubes to the bowl, stir, and let cool.

Add 6 more cups of water to the pot with the hot liquid and seasonings and bring back to a full boil. Add the shrimp. When the water comes back to a simmer, immediately turn heat down to medium-low. Simmer the shrimp until pink and starting to curl, 2 to 4 1/2 minutes, depending on the size of the shrimp. Scoop out shrimp and place instantly in the prepared bowl of flavored water with the ice cubes. Stir to cool evenly and add more ice cubes if all melt.

Let shrimp stand in the flavored water about 5 minutes. Drain, peel and devein.

In a large mixing bowl, alternate layers of shrimp, thin onion slices and bay leaves.

In a small bowl, whisk together oil, vinegar, capers, caper juice, Worcestershire sauce, the remaining 1 teaspoon salt and optional hot sauce. Pour over shrimp, cover and refrigerate overnight. Drain the vinaigrette, remove some of the onions (for aesthetics) and serve cold.

In a small bowl, whisk together oil, vinegar, capers, caper juice, Worcestershire sauce, the remaining 1 teaspoon salt and optional hot sauce. Pour over shrimp, cover and refrigerate overnight. Drain the vinaigrette, remove some of the onions (for aesthetics) and serve cold.

Per serving: 103 calories; 10 g fat; 1 g saturated fat; 31 mg cholesterol; 4 g protein; 1 g carbohydrate; 1 g sugar; 1 g fiber; 439 mg sodium; 23 mg calcium

—Recipe from “CookWise,” by Shirley O. Corriher