Bohemian Orange Chicken

8 (5 ounce, 2.5lb) bone-in, skin-on chicken thighs
2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 tablespoon olive oil
1/2 cup diced onion
1 pinch kosher salt
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 medium orange, zested
2/3 cup freshly squeezed orange juice
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
2 cups chicken broth
1 pinch ground cinnamon
1 pinch cayenne pepper
1/8 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 tablespoon caraway seeds
1 splash water, or as needed (Optional)
1 teaspoon grated orange zest

Generously season chicken thighs on both sides with 2 teaspoons kosher salt.

Heat olive oil in a large cast iron skillet over high heat. Add chicken, skin-side down, to the hot oil and sear until skin is golden brown and releases from the bottom of the skillet, 4 to 5 minutes. Turn and sear on the other side for 3 to 4 minutes. Turn off the heat and remove chicken to a plate. Drain fat from the skillet and reserve for another use.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).

Place the skillet back on the stove. Add onion, a pinch of kosher salt, and sugar. Turn heat to medium-high; cook and stir until onion turns translucent and sugar starts to caramelize on the bottom, 3 to 4 minutes. Add garlic; cook and stir until fragrant, about 30 seconds, being careful not to burn.

Add orange zest, orange juice, lemon juice, and chicken broth. Increase heat to high, and stir in cinnamon, cayenne, and black pepper. Stir occasionally and bring to a boil. Boil until liquids are reduced by half, 2 to 3 minutes.

Turn off the heat and transfer chicken and any accumulated juices back into the skillet; make sure the skin is facing up. Baste chicken with the liquid and sprinkle caraway seeds over top.

Cover and bake in the center of the preheated oven for 1 hour. Remove from the oven, remove the lid, and baste chicken.

Return to the oven and bake, uncovered, until no longer pink at the bone and the juices run clear, about 20 more minutes, adding a splash of water if the liquid dries out. An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C).

Remove from the oven and baste again. Garnish with grated orange zest and serve.