Brown Butter Bourbon Pecan Chocolate Chunk Cookies

For the Buttered Pecans:
1 and 1/2 cups (170 grams) pecan halves, finely chopped
1 and 1/2 tablespoons (24 grams) unsalted butter

For the Brown Butter Bourbon Pecan Chocolate Chunk Cookies:
2 sticks (226 grams) unsalted butter, melted until browned
2 and 1/2 cups (300 grams) all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon (5 grams) salt
1/2 teaspoon (1 gram) ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup (213 grams) dark brown sugar, packed
1/2 cup (99 grams) granulated sugar
2 teaspoons (8 grams) vanilla extract
3 Tablespoons (42 grams) bourbon
2 large eggs, at room temperature
8 ounces semi-sweet OR dark chocolate, roughly chopped into chunks
24 pecan halves, for decoration, optional
1 Tablespoon flaky sea salt, optional

Instructions
 
For the Buttered Pecans:

Melt butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add in chopped pecans and cook, stirring occasionally, for 4 to 5 minutes, or until lightly 
toasted. Set aside until needed.

For the Brown Butter:

In a saucepan, over medium heat, melt the butter. Continue to cook the butter. swirling the pan occasionally. Keep a close eye here. The top of the butter should become foamy. And you should hear tiny popping noises. The butter will develop into a rich amber color, with tiny brown bits at the bottom. And it will have a slightly nutty aroma. Once the butter reaches this stage, remove from heat immediately and pour into a large mixing bowl.

For the Brown Butter Bourbon Pecan Chocolate Chunk Cookies:

In a large bowl combine flour, salt, cinnamon, baking soda, and baking powder; whisk well to combine then set aside until needed.
In a large bowl using a handheld electric mixer, or in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine melted browned butter and both sugars and beat on medium-speed until well combined; about 1 minutes.

Add in the vanilla and bourbon and beat until combined.

Add in the eggs, one at a time, beating for 15 seconds after each addition. Turn mixer off. Using a wooden spoon or sturdy rubber spatula, gently fold in the flour, stirring only until the flour begins to disappear. Fold in the chocolate chunks and buttered pecans. 
Cover bowl and refrigerate for 4 hours. 

To Bake:

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F). Line two large baking sheets with parchment paper. 
Using a large cookie scoop, divide the dough into 3-tablespoon sized balls and place onto prepared baking sheets, leaving about 3 inches between each ball of dough for spreading.

Firmly press a pecan half on top of each ball of cookie dough. 

Bake, one tray at a time, in a preheated oven for 12 minutes, or until golden brown. If any edges spread out while baking, use a spatula and gently press them back in as soon as you remove the cookies from the oven. 

Press extra chocolate chunks and pecans pieces on top of warm cookies. Then sprinkle with sea salt. 
Allow cookies to cool on the pan for 15 minutes, then carefully transfer to a cooling rack. 
