Brown Sugar Boba Pearls

1/3 cup (78ml) water 
1/3 cup packed (65g) light brown sugar 
1 cup (120g) tapioca starch, plus more to coat the boba pearls 


Brown Sugar Syrup

6 1/2 tablespoons (100ml) water 
1 1/4 cups (250g) light brown sugar 
1 tablespoons (19g) blackstrap molasses 

Tea Option 1 Traditional Milk Tea 

2 cups (500ml) whole milk or any nut milk 
2 tablespoons (4g) loose leaf black tea 
Brown sugar boba pearls, to taste 
Brown sugar syrup, to taste 

Tea Option 2 Matcha Boba Tea
2 1/2 teaspoons (6g) matcha powder 
2 tablespoons (30ml) hot water 
2 cups (500ml) whole milk or any nut milk 
Brown sugar boba pearls, to taste 

For The Brown Sugar Boba and Brown Sugar Syrup 

Prepare the brown sugar boba pearls. In a small saucepan, combine the water and brown sugar. Heat mixture over high heat until boiling. Reduce the heat to low and mix in half the tapioca starch with a rubber spatula, stirring constantly for 6-8 seconds. Remove from heat and mix in the rest of the tapioca starch until a dough just begins to form. 

Dump the dough out onto a work surface and knead until a smooth dough forms, about 1 minute or so. Working quickly, as the dough will dry up if it cools too much, divide the dough into four equal pieces and roll each piece into a long rod that is 1/2-inch thick. Cut the rod into small cubes and then roll the cubes into balls. If the dough does firm up too much, place it in the microwave for about 3 seconds or until it is pliable again. 

Place the boba pearls into a bowl with tapioca starch and toss to coat. Dump the boba into a fine-mesh sieve to shake off the excess tapioca starch. Store in an airtight container in the freezer or use immediately. 

To cook the boba pearls, heat a medium pot of water over medium-high heat until boiling. Add the pearls and boil for 30 minutes. Cut the heat and let the pearls rest in the water for 20-25 minutes or until translucent and chewy. 

While the pearls rest, prepare the brown sugar syrup. To a small saucepot, add the water and brown sugar and swirl to combine. Place over medium heat and cook until the sugar dissolves and the mixture starts to bubble. Increase the heat to medium-high and boil vigorously to reduce the liquid into a syrup. When large bubbles form on the surface, check the thickness by placing a dollop of syrup on a plate, let cool slightly, and then press the syrup between your fingers. If the syrup stretches between your fingers and feels thick, remove from heat. 

Drain the pearls through a fine-mesh strainer. Stir into the syrup mixture along with the molasses. 


For Traditional Milk Tea


To assemble the traditional milk tea, add the milk to a small saucepan over medium heat. Heat the milk until it reaches 162°F (72°C), stirring occasionally. Remove from heat and mix in the black tea. Let steep for 4-8 minutes, or until it reaches the desired strength of flavor. Strain the tea through a fine-mesh strainer before cooling in the refrigerator or over an ice bath before using. 

To a tall glass, spoon in as many boba pearls as desired and top with desired amount of syrup. Add in the ice cubes before pouring in the chilled milk tea and serve. 


For Matcha Milk Tea


To assemble the matcha boba tea, in a small bowl whisk together the matcha powder and hot water until combined, it should have the consistency of heavy cream. 

To a tall glass, spoon in as many boba pearls as desired and top with desired amount of syrup. Add in the ice cubes and then pour milk over the ice, leaving room at the top for the matcha. Pour the matcha mixture into the glass, stir to combine and serve. 