Caramelized Pears with Blue Cheese and Black Pepper-Caramel Sauce

  Any type of pear can be used in this recipe, as long as it is firm. 

Serves 6 
1/3	 cup  water 
2/3	 cup sugar (4 3/4 ounces) 	
3	 ripe but firm pears, halved, seeds removed with a large melon 
baller, and 1/4 inch trimmed off the bottom of each pear half so it will 
stand upright 	
2/3	 cups heavy cream  	
table salt
1/4	 teaspoon whole black peppercorns, roughly crushed 	
3	 ounces  blue cheese (strong such as Stilton), cut into 6 attractive wedges 	
	

1. Place the water in a 12-inch nonstick skillet and pour the sugar 
into the center of the pan, taking care not to let the crystals adhere to 
the sides of the pan. Bring to a boil over high heat, stirring 
occasionally, until the sugar is fully dissolved and the mixture is bubbling 
wildly. Add the pears to the skillet, cut-side down, cover, reduce the 
heat to medium-high, and cook until the pears are nearly tender (a paring 
knife inserted into the center of the pears feels slight resistance). 

2. Uncover, reduce the heat to medium, and cook until the sauce is 
golden brown and the cut sides of the pears are partly caramelized, 3 to 5 
minutes. Pour the heavy cream around the pears and cook, shaking the 
pan back and forth, until the sauce is a smooth, deep caramel color and 
the cut sides of the pears are beautifully golden, 3 to 5 minutes. 

3. Remove the pan from the heat. Using tongs, carefully remove the 
pears from the pan and place cut-side up on a wire rack set over a trimmed 
baking sheet. Cool slightly. Season the sauce left in the pan with salt 
to taste and the crushed black pepper, then pour it into a liquid 
measuring cup. 

4. Carefully (the pears will still be hot) stand each pear half upright 
on an individual plate and arrange a wedge of the blue sheese beside 
it. Drizzle the plate and some of the pear with the caramel sauce. Serve 
immediately. (Alternatively, the pears can be stood upright on a large 
serving platter, and the warm caramel sauce and the blue cheese can be 
passed separately.)



----
