Chicken and Chickpea Masala

2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons olive oil or any vegetable oil
1 medium onion, finely diced
3 cloves garlic, minced
2 fresh green chilies sliced with seeds or seedless if you want less heat
1 inch grated fresh ginger
1 tablespoon ground cumin
1 tablespoon ground coriander
1 teaspoon ground turmeric
1 teaspoon chili powder
1/2 teaspoon each of salt and pepper plus more to taste
1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes
200 grams fresh spinach leaves - add extra according to taste (or frozen but thawed and extra water squeezed out)
1 tablespoon of freshly squeezed lemon juice plus more according to taste
1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro leaves plus more for serving
2-1/2 pounds chicken drumsticks and thighs (approx 4 to 6 of each)
1/2 cup chicken stock
1 (19-ounce) can chickpeas, rinsed and drained
1 teaspoon Garam Masala
1/2 cup heavy cream

Directions

Heat butter and oil in a pressure cooker over medium-high heat (sauté setting on instant pot). Add onions, garlic, chilis and ginger. Cook, stirring frequently, until onions are translucent and just starting to get some golden colour on them - approximately 5 minutes. (See note about browning chicken)
Add cumin, coriander, turmeric, and chili pepper stirring frequently, until aromatic, about 30 seconds. Add crushed tomatoes and spinach and cook, stirring occasionally, until spinach is wilted, just a few minutes and scrape the bottom of the pot well to release all the brown bits.
Add half of cilantro, the chicken stock, and the chicken pieces. Stir to combine. Seal instant pot/pressure cooker and heat to high pressure and program to cook for 15 minutes with quick release.
Remove lid and stir in drained chickpeas, 1 tablespoons lemon juice, and simmer (you may need to turn the Instant pot back on to sauté setting for a quick simmer), stirring frequently, until sauce is slightly reduced and thickened, just a few minutes. Season to taste with salt. Remove from heat and stir in the cream and Garam masala. Serve immediately, garnished with remaining cilantro leaves.

Recipe Notes

If you decide to brown your chicken before sweating the onions and chili’s that is fine just adjust the timing to 12 minutes instead of 15 as the chicken will cook through a little, while browning. Brown the chicken then remove and set aside and continue with step 1 adding the onions, garlic chili’s. Add the chicken back into the pot along with any juices as directed in step 3


Stove top and oven braising instructions

Heat butter in a large dutch oven or heavy bottom stewing pot over medium-high heat. (If browning chicken - Add them in at this point and brown on all sides in batches then remove and set aside on a plate).
Add onions, garlic, chilis and ginger. Cook, stirring frequently, until onions are translucent and just starting to get some golden colour on them - about 5 minutes.
Add cumin, coriander, turmeric, and chili pepper stirring frequently, until aromatic, about 30 seconds. Add crushed tomatoes and spinach and cook, stirring occasionally, until spinach is wilted, about 2 minutes. Add half of cilantro, chicken stock, and chicken pieces in or back in if you had browned and removed them. Stir to combine. Cover pot and transfer to oven. Or leave on the stovetop - allow to braise until fork-tender, 45-55 minutes.
Remove (remove from oven if braising in oven and place on burner on medium so it continues to simmer) lid and stir in drained chickpeas, 1 tablespoons lemon juice, and simmer stirring frequently, until sauce is thickened, just a few minutes. Season to taste with salt. Remove from heat and stir in the cream and Garam Masala. Serve immediately, garnished with remaining cilantro leaves and extra lemon slices. Serve with rice or naan bread.