Chocolate Raspberry Mousse Cake

For the Brownie Layer:

3.33 oz all-purpose flour, (3/4 cup)
2 oz unsweetened cocoa powder, (2/3 cup)
1/2 tsp salt
1/2 tsp baking powder
4 oz unsalted butter
7.75 oz granulated sugar, (1 cup +2 tbsp)
2 large eggs, large, at room temperature
2 tsp vanilla extract
For the Chocolate Mousse:
9 oz semi-sweet chocolate, finely chopped
1 3/4 cups heavy cream, divided use
Pinch of salt
2 tsp unflavored powdered gelatin
2 TBSP water

For the Raspberry Mousse:
1 1/2 cups fresh raspberries, see Note below
9 oz white chocolate, finely chopped
1 1/2 cups heavy cream, divided use
Pinch of salt
2 tsp unflavored powdered gelatin
2 TBSP water
pink gel food coloring, optional

For the Vanilla Mousse:
9 oz white chocolate, finely chopped
1 1/2 cups heavy cream, divided use
4 TBSP honey
Pinch of salt
2 tsp unflavored powdered gelatin
2 TBSP water
2 tsp vanilla bean paste, can substitute vanilla extract

To Finish:
4 oz semi-sweet chocolate, finely chopped
4 oz heavy cream
1 pint fresh raspberries, see Note below
Chocolate curls , or other decorations


To Make the Brownie Layer:

Preheat the oven to 350 F. Line a 9-inch cake pan with parchment and spray well with nonstick cooking spray. Whisk together the flour, cocoa powder, salt, and baking powder in a small bowl. Set aside for now.

Cube the butter and place it in a medium saucepan over medium-low heat. Stir occasionally as the butter melts. Add the sugar and stir it into the melted butter until combined. 

Remove the pan from the heat, and let it cool to lukewarm. Once it has cooled, add the eggs, one at a time, whisking well between each addition. The mixture will start out grainy, but as you add the eggs, it will become shiny and smooth. Whisk the vanilla in. Finally, add the dry ingredients, and stir them in with a spatula.

Scrape the brownie batter into the prepared pan, and bake it for 22-24 minutes, until a toothpick comes out with just a few moist crumbs attached. Cool the brownie layer completely before proceeding.

To Make the Mousse Layers:

Prepare your pan. You need a 9-inch pan with sides at least 3 inches tall, and the ability to remove the bottom. Either a cake pan with a removeable bottom or a 9" springform will work. Line the inner wall with an acetate cake collar or strip of aluminum foil, parchment paper, or waxed paper. Make sure the acetate collar or other lining is long enough so that it overlaps itself. Also, if you are using foil/parchment/waxed paper, make sure you cut the strip tall enough to extend at least an inch over the pan’s sides, since the cake is about 4 inches tall.
Place a cake cardboard in the bottom of the pan, then carefully place the baked brownie on top of the cardboard.
Prepare the chocolate mousse layer: combine the chocolate, 3/4 cup of cream, and salt in a microwave-safe bowl. Microwave in 30-second increments, stirring every 30 seconds, until the chocolate has melted and the mixture is smooth. Pour it into a large bowl, and let it cool to slightly above room temperature, stirring occasionally.

While you wait for the chocolate mixture to cool, prepare the gelatin. Whisk together the gelatin and the cold water in a small bowl, and set it aside to let the gelatin absorb the water. When the chocolate is sufficiently cooled, microwave the bowl of gelatin for 15 seconds, until it is melted. Then whisk the melted gelatin and chocolate together.

Whip the remaining 1 cup heavy whipping cream to just before firm peaks form (see FAQ for more tips). Fold half of the whipped cream into the warm chocolate. Once it’s incorporated, gently fold in the remaining whipped cream. Scrape the mousse on top of the brownie, and spread it into an even layer. Refrigerate the cake for 25 minutes, until the mouse has started to set and is firm enough that a second layer can be added.

Prepare the raspberry mousse layer: make a quick puree by blending 1/2 cup fresh raspberries in a blender or food processor. Pour them through a fine mesh strainer to remove the seeds, and measure out 1/4 cup raspberry puree. Extra puree can be saved and used for other purposes.

Combine the white chocolate, raspberry puree, 1/2 cup heavy whipping cream, and salt in a microwave-safe bowl. Continue to make the raspberry layer the same way you made the chocolate layer, by melting and cooling the chocolate mixture to about 95-100 degrees C, whisking in melted gelatin, and folding in whipped cream. Add a few drops of pink food coloring to boost the pink color, if desired. At the very end, stir in the remaining 1 cup of fresh raspberries and pour the mousse over the chocolate mousse layer. Spread it into an even layer, and refrigerate again for about 25 minutes.

Prepare the vanilla bean layer: combine the white chocolate, 1/2 cup heavy whipping cream, honey, and salt in a microwave-safe bowl. Continue to make this layer the same way you made the previous two layers by allowing the chocolate mixture to cool, whisking in the gelatin, and folding in the whipped cream. After completing those steps, stir in the vanilla bean paste and pour the vanilla mousse over the raspberry mousse layer. Refrigerate to set the mousse layers very well, at least 4 hours or overnight.

To finish the cake: push the bottom out from the pan, or unhinge the sides, and unwrap the acetate strip. Transfer the cake to your serving platter. Make a quick chocolate ganache by putting the chopped chocolate in a small bowl and heating the cream to a simmer. Pour the hot cream over the chopped chocolate and whisk gently until the chocolate melts and you have a smooth, shiny mixture.

Pour the ganache over the top of the cake, and use a spatula to nudge it right to the edge and over in evenly spaced drizzles. Don’t worry if the top is not smooth—it will be covered up! Add the fresh raspberries and chocolate curls on top of the cake. Refrigerate to set the ganache.

For the cleanest slices, cut the cake when it is well chilled. Use a large sharp knife, and wash it frequently between cuts. For the best taste and texture, allow the cake slices to sit at room temperature for 10-15 minutes before serving.

Store Chocolate Raspberry Mousse Cake, well-wrapped, in the refrigerator for up to a week.