Chocolate Cream Pie (FT)
Two kinds of chocolate and Oreo cookies produce a pie with rich chocolate flavor and an easy-to-slice crust.

Despite its grand flourishes and snowcapped peaks, a chocolate cream pie is but a pudding or pastry cream whose substance has been given form. Comprising very basic ingredients--milk or cream, eggs, sugar, flour or cornstarch, butter, vanilla, and chocolate--it is cooked on the stove in a matter of minutes, chilled in a baked pie shell for a couple of hours, then topped with whipped cream. This pie, while looking superb, can be gluey or gummy, too sweet, even acrid. I wanted a filling of voluptuous creaminess that was reasonably sliceworthy, with a well-balanced chocolate flavor somewhere between milkshake and melted candy bar.
In our out-of-the-starting-gate tradition, I began by making a number of versions of this pie. Ingredient ratios were fairly stable, white sugar was standard, and about half the recipes used butter. But within ingredient margins, options abounded. I got to work.

Getting to Perfect Pastry Cream
A pastry cream, while in essence a quick, simple production, will form tapioca-like lumps of varying diameter in the presence of sloppiness or inattention--something I was well aware of, having seen the results of poor technique and preparation firsthand. Sequencing is pretty standard: while the milk or cream is brought to a boil with most of the sugar, a small portion of the sugar is held back, combined with the starch, and mixed thoroughly with the yolks. This yolk mixture is then tempered, or warmed with a fraction of the simmering milk or cream, allowing the starch molecules to expand gently. (That small amount of reserved sugar is important; as it is stirred with the yolks, it begins to dissolve, making the emulsion more fluid and easing the integration of the simmering milk or cream.) The warmed emulsion is reintroduced to the simmering milk or cream, and the whole is brought rapidly to a boil under constant stirring or whisking. Despite the fact that it contains eggs, a pastry cream can and must boil if the starch molecules are to expand and thicken.
I began by assessing my favorite pastry cream recipe--4 egg yolks, 1/2 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons cornstarch, 2 cups milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract, and 2 tablespoons butter--realizing that the proportions might require substantial modification for a chocolate filling. I wanted first to settle on the ingredient base and ran some comparative tests, most of which left me true to my original candidates. Egg yolks, for example, produced a cream of unsurpassed texture and flavor, far superior to one made with whole eggs. Cornstarch tasted lighter and cleaner than flour. Whole butter stirred into the finished cream effected tremendous improvements in texture and flavor, making the pastry cream supple and lush. One ingredient was to change: half-and-half provided enhanced mouthfeel and textural support for the chocolate; it was markedly better than milk or cream.
Through multiple trials and tweakings I developed a basic recipe that contained all of the ingredients mentioned above, along with more half-and-half to increase overall volume. It also called for higher proportions of egg yolks (6) and butter (6 tablespoons) than a standard pastry cream. Testing had convinced me that the texture of a chocolate cream filling benefits immeasurably when fats are used as thickeners while basic starch is minimized. Butter, egg yolks, and half-and-half render a silky texture and provide most of the requisite thickening with greater finesse than just flour or cornstarch. Well padded with fat, these ingredients are also staunch chroniclers of flavor.
Put another way, stingy fillings made with milk, a minimum of eggs, and no butter require far more base thickener to set up. The job gets done--but at the expense of texture and taste.

Chocolate Shopping
The chocolate options before me were three: semisweet (or bittersweet, which is quite similar), unsweetened, or a mixture of the two. Tasters felt that fillings made exclusively with semisweet or bittersweet chocolate lacked flavor depth, while those made with unsweetened chocolate alone hit a sour note. Without exception, tasters wanted the filling to land on the dark, intense bittersweet side and the cream topping to be sweet and pure.
The roundest, most upfront chocolate flavor, with lingering intensity at the finish, came in the form of 6 ounces semisweet and 1 ounce unsweetened chocolate. The apparently negligible amount of unsweetened chocolate contributed hugely to the flavor; semisweet or bittersweet chocolate on its own left the palate unsatisfied. We wondered why, so we called Thalia Hohenthal, a food scientist with Guittard Chocolate. According to Hohenthal, bittersweet chocolate has been processed more than unsweetened chocolate and has therefore lost some of its raw, "native" chocolate flavor. Unsweetened chocolate, which does not undergo the kneading, grinding, and smoothing process known as conching, retains all of its strong and sometimes bitter flavors that translate well in desserts.
This was not the only advantage of the small amount of unsweetened chocolate. Because it further thickened the cream, I was able to reduce the cornstarch from 3 tablespoons to 2.
Next I moved on to compare fancy imported chocolates with domestic grocery store brands. The first test, pitting the widely available Baker's unsweetened chocolate against several unsweetened chocolates with European pedigrees, confirmed my fears that the supermarket stuff would be no match for its European competition. (Of the imported chocolates, all tasters preferred Callebaut.) Even at 1 ounce, the Baker's chocolate contributed an "off" flavor and rubberiness of texture that everyone noticed. But the next round of testing brought unexpected good news: Hershey's Special Dark chocolate was a consistent winner in the semisweet category, beating out not only a premium American semisweet entry but also its European competitors--and you can buy it in a drugstore! Hershey's unsweetened chocolate, while not as refined in flavor and texture as Callebaut unsweetened, placed a respectable second to Callebaut and was miles ahead of Baker's.

Technique Pulls It All Together
In the course of making versions of my pastry cream with all these different chocolates, I found that this filling requires as much care in its execution as a standard pastry cream, perhaps more. Because it is 3 standing inches of pure chocolate, a texture less than faultlessly smooth will deliver an experience less than ethereal. Temperature, timing, and technique are important.
On occasions when I didn't combine the eggs adequately with the sugar and starch (which meant mixing almost until the yolks ribbonned) or when I left the emulsion to sit around awaiting the simmering half-and-half, the sugar began to denature (break down) the yolks and made the finished texture of the cream grainy. For the pastry cream to attain a flawless texture, the half-and-half in the pan had to be simmering and left to simmer, rather than pulled off the stove, while the yolks were tempered. This way the introduction of the warmed yolks barely registered on the half-and-half, which quickly came back to a boil and was finished. Cold butter, whisked into the bright-hot, nearly finished pastry cream, made a finer finished texture than soft butter. The chocolate, stirred in at the end in finely chopped bits, gave the finish sheen and body.
This was now a splendid pastry cream. Three hours of refrigeration gave it just enough wherewithal to slice up under a cloud of whipped cream and remain creamy on the tongue. It was deep in flavor and shy enough in sweetness to set up a lovely counterpoint to its topping.

Bottoms Up
As for the crust, I prepared every imaginable crumb variant, from graham to zwieback and back, as well as a standard pastry dough. Without exception, tasters swooned over a crumb crust made with chocolate cookie crumbs to the exclusion of all others.
While easier to make than rolled pastry dough and arguably better suited to chilled pudding fillings, crumb crusts are not altogether seamless enterprises. Sandy and insubstantial at one extreme, tough and intractable at the other, they can be a serving nightmare. While no one expects a slice of cream pie to hold up like a slab of marble, it isn't expected to collapse on a bed of grit or lacerate a cornea with airborne shrapnel, either. At the outset, the powers that be offered me a single crust mandate: It's got to slice, they said. Roger.
The standard cookie used to make a chocolate crumb crust is of course Nabisco Famous Chocolate Wafers. I duly recruited these veterans for early tests, using around a cup and a half of crumbs and a quarter cup melted butter along with a couple tablespoons of sugar and a bit of salt. We didn't care for the flavor of these crusts unbaked and found them somewhat tough (if sliceable) baked. I began rooting around for additions, vowing to avoid ground nuts, which I felt would mitigate the chocolate authority I wanted this pie to have.
After trying without much success to soften the crust with a percentage of fresh white bread crumbs, I made a leap of faith to Oreo cookies pulverized straight up with their filling. I hoped that the creaminess of the centers would lend flavor and softness to the finished crust and that their pure fat would eliminate the need for additional butter. No luck there. The crust was grainy and porous without butter and stubbornly linoleum-like when fortified with water or egg white. I tried again, this time dressing the crumbs with 2 tablespoons of melted butter. Now I had a hit on my hands. The Oreo flavor came through loud and clear, and the creamy, hydrogenated centers, along with a bit of butter, prevented the baked crumbs from becoming tough. No additional sugar or even salt was required.
In terms of technique, I discovered that while a crumb crust adheres nicely to a pie plate that has been buttered first, it does not release as well after baking. Many recipes recommend chilling the crumb-lined plate for 20 or 30 minutes before baking, and this is a recommendation that I generally support (the melted butter becomes firm and keeps everything from shifting). Still, on the occasions when I baked the crust straight off, it did remain in place. Ten minutes at 350 degrees did the trick--higher temperatures burned the cocoa. The crisp salty-sweet chocolate crumbs give the rich filling voice and definition. Cloaked with whipped cream, as a composite, this piece moves as one.

CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE
Makes one 9-inch pie, serving 8 to 10

For the best chocolate flavor and texture, we recommend either Callebaut semisweet and unsweetened chocolates or Hershey's Special Dark and Hershey's unsweetened chocolates. Do not combine the yolks and sugar in advance of making the filling--the sugar will begin to denature the yolks, and the finished cream will be pitted.

Chocolate Cookie Crumb Crust
16 Oreo cookies (with filling), broken into rough pieces, about 2 1/2 cups
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled

Chocolate Cream Filling
2 1/2 cups half-and-half
Pinch salt
1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
6 large egg yolks, room temperature, chalazae removed
6 tablespoons cold unsalted butter,
cut into 6 pieces
6 ounces semi- or bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
1 ounce unsweetened chocolate, finely chopped
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Whipped Cream Topping
1 1/2 cups cold heavy cream
1 1/2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract

1. FOR THE CRUST: Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 350 degrees. In bowl of food processor fitted with steel blade, process cookies with 15 one-second pulses, then let machine run until crumbs are uniformly fine, about 15 seconds. (Alternatively, place cookies in large zipper-lock plastic bag and crush with rolling pin.) Transfer crumbs to medium bowl, drizzle with butter, and use fingers to combine until butter is evenly distributed.
2. Pour crumbs into 9-inch Pyrex pie plate. Press crumbs evenly onto bottom and up sides of pie plate. Refrigerate lined pie plate 20 minutes to firm crumbs, then bake until crumbs are fragrant and set, about 10 minutes. Cool on wire rack while preparing filling.
3. FOR THE FILLING: Bring half-and-half, salt, and about 3 tablespoons sugar to simmer in medium saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally with wooden spoon to dissolve sugar. Stir together remaining sugar and cornstarch in small bowl, then sprinkle over yolks and whisk, scraping down sides of bowl, if necessary, until mixture is glossy and sugar has begun to dissolve, about 1 minute. Whisk yolks thoroughly in medium bowl until slightly thickened, about 30 seconds. When half-and-half reaches full simmer, drizzle about 1/2 cup hot half-and-half over yolks, whisking constantly to temper; then whisk egg yolk mixture into simmering half-and-half (mixture should thicken in about 30 seconds). Return to simmer, whisking constantly, until 3 or 4 bubbles burst on the surface and mixture is thickened and glossy, about 15 seconds longer.
4. Off heat, whisk in butter until incorporated; add chocolates and whisk until melted, scraping pan bottom with rubber spatula to fully incorporate. Stir in vanilla, then immediately pour filling into baked and cooled crust. Press plastic wrap directly on surface of filling and refrigerate pie until filling is cold and firm, about 3 hours.
5. FOR THE TOPPING: Just before serving, beat cream, sugar, and vanilla in bowl of standing mixer on low speed until small bubbles form, about 30 seconds. Increase speed to medium; continue beating until beaters leave a trail, about 30 seconds more. Increase speed to high; continue beating until cream is smooth, thick, and nearly doubled in volume and forms soft peaks, about 20 seconds. Spread or pipe whipped cream over chilled pie filling. Cut pie into wedges and serve.

Please see PDF below for illustrated instructions for "Making The Pastry Cream" 