Chocolate Creme Caramel

Ingredients

The Caramel
1 cup sugar (200 gr)
1/4 cup water (60 ml)
1 1/2 tsp lemon juice

The Chocolate Creme

1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (30 gr)
2 cup full fat milk (500 ml), room temperature
4 eggs , room temperature
14 oz condensed milk (400 gr)
1 tsp vanilla extract
1/8 tsp salt


Instructions
The Caramel

Add all caramel ingredients in a pot and cook on medium heat, untouched, until it turns amber color.
Carefully divide the caramel into 6x1 cup (250 ml) container. Holding the tip of the container, carefully swirl so that the caramel coats 1/2 way the inner wall of the container. Set aside.

The Chocolate Creme

Add bit of milk into cocoa powder and mix, turning it into a lump free thick mixture. Add milk bit by bit as you go.

Then add the mixture to the rest of the milk and mix well to combine. Set aside.

Into a bowl, add in eggs, condensed milk, vanilla extract and salt. Use a hand whisk and gently mix everything together.

Then pour in milk mixture into the eggs mixture. Again, gently mix everything just to combine. Sift the mixture to discard any lumps. Pour into prepared containers, leaving a bit less than 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) space to the brim. 

Cover each container with aluminium foil and then place them in a deep baking tray. Pour hot water until 1/2 way of the baking tray, using bain-marie method.

Bake in preheated oven at 280ºF (140ºC) for 60 minutes or until cooked and set yet still wiggly. Remove from the hot water and leave to cool to room temperature. Then chill in the fridge overnight or minimum 8 hours.

How To Get Silky Smooth Texture

Don't over whisk the mixture or whisk it harsh. Always mix gently. Over whisking will incorporate air inside the mixture, creating bubbles when cooked.

Always use low temperature. 

How To Know When Creme Caramel Is Cooked

Check after minute 30 of cooking time by gently inserting a knife inside the creme caramel mixture. If it comes out clean, then it's cooked.
Keep checking every 10 minutes after that.

The creme caramel should still be wiggly when it's fully cooked. If it's not wiggly then it's over cooked.

Do not over cook creme caramel, this will result in dense and not silky smooth texture.

How To Successfully Flip Creme Caramel

Soak the bottom half of creme caramel container in warm water for a while. This will help to melt the caramel, making it easier to detach from the container.

Place a serving plate on top and then flip. Give it a few hard shake, just don't go crazy :D. The creme caramel should slide right down on the plate.

Read more tips in the above post.

How To Serve

Serve this delicious chocolate creme caramel as is, or for an additional touch, serve it with some berries of your choice.
