COD BAKED IN FOIL WITH LEEKS AND CARROTS

Can use Haddock, red snapper, halibut, and sea bass.

INGREDIENTS
4 tablespoons unsalted butter , softened
1 1/4 teaspoons finely grated zest from 1 lemon ; lemon cut into wedges (see note)
2 medium garlic cloves , minced or pressed through a garlic press (about 2 teaspoons)
1 teaspoon minced fresh thyme leaves
Table salt and ground black pepper
2 tablespoons minced fresh parsley leaves
2 medium carrots , peeled and cut into matchsticks (about 1 1/2 cups) (see note)
2 medium leeks , white and light green parts halved lengthwise, washed, and cut into matchsticks (about 2 cups) (see note)
4 tablespoons vermouth or dry white wine
4 skinless cod fillets , 1 to 1 1/4 inches thick (about 6 ounces each)


INSTRUCTIONS
1. Combine butter, ¼ teaspoon zest, 1 teaspoon garlic, thyme, ¼ teaspoon salt, and 1/8 teaspoon pepper in small bowl. Combine parsley, remaining teaspoon zest, and remaining teaspoon garlic in another small bowl; set aside. Place carrots and leeks in medium bowl, season with salt and pepper, and toss together. 

2. Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 450 degrees. Cut eight 12-inch sheets of foil; arrange four flat on counter. Divide carrot and leek mixture among foil sheets, mounding in center of each. Pour 1 tablespoon vermouth over each mound of vegetables. Pat fish dry with paper towels; season with salt and pepper and place one fillet on top of each vegetable mound. Spread quarter of butter mixture on top of each fillet. Place second square of foil on top of fish; crimp edges together in ½-inch fold, then fold over three more times to create a packet about 7 inches square (see illustrations, above). Place packets on rimmed baking sheet (overlapping slightly if necessary).

3. Bake packets 15 minutes. Carefully open foil, allowing steam to escape away from you. Using thin metal spatula, gently slide fish and vegetables onto plate with any accumulated juices; sprinkle with parsley mixture. Serve immediately, passing lemon wedges separately.

COD BAKED IN FOIL WITH ZUCCHINI AND TOMATOES

Serves 4. Published March 1, 2009. From Cook's Illustrated.

Haddock, red snapper, halibut, and sea bass also work well in this recipe and those that follow as long as the fillets are 1 to 1¼ inches thick. The packets may be assembled several hours ahead of time and refrigerated until ready to cook. If the packets have been refrigerated for more than 30 minutes, increase the cooking time by 2 minutes. Open each packet promptly after baking to prevent overcooking.

INGREDIENTS
1 pound zucchini (2 medium), ends trimmed and sliced crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick rounds
Table salt
1/2 pound plum tomatoes (2 medium), cored, seeded, and chopped into 1/2-inch pieces (about 1 cup)
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
2 medium garlic cloves , minced or pressed through a garlic press (about 2 teaspoons)
1 teaspoon minced fresh oregano leaves
1/8 teaspoon red pepper flakes
Ground black pepper
4 tablespoon vermouth or dry white wine
4 skinless cod fillets , 1 to 1 1/4 inches thick (about 6 ounces each)
1/4 cup minced fresh basil leaves
1 lemon , cut into wedges

INSTRUCTIONS

1. Toss zucchini with ½ teaspoon salt in large bowl; transfer to colander set over bowl. Let stand until zucchini releases 1 to 2 tablespoons liquid, about 30 minutes. Arrange zucchini on triple layer paper towels; cover with another triple layer paper towels. Firmly press each slice to remove as much liquid as possible. Meanwhile, combine tomatoes, oil, garlic, oregano, red pepper flakes, ¼ teaspoon salt, and 1/8 teaspoon pepper in medium bowl.

2. Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 450 degrees. Cut eight 12-inch sheets of foil; arrange four flat on counter. Distribute salted zucchini among foil sheets, mounding in center of each. Pour 1 tablespoon vermouth over each mound of vegetables. Pat fish dry with paper towels; season with salt and pepper and place one fillet on top of each vegetable mound. Spoon quarter of tomato mixture over each fillet. Place second square of foil on top of fish; crimp edges together in ½-inch fold, then fold over three more times to create a packet about 7 inches square (see related Step-By-Step). Place packets on rimmed baking sheet (overlapping slightly if necessary).

3. Bake packets 15 minutes. Carefully open foil, allowing steam to escape away from you. Using thin metal spatula, gently slide fish and vegetables onto plate with any accumulated juices; sprinkle with basil. Serve immediately, passing lemon wedges separately.