Cooks Illustrated Pad Thai

Ingredients
2 TB tamarind paste
3/4 cup boiling water
3 TB fish sauce
1 TB rice vinegar
3 TB sugar
3/4 tsp cayenne pepper
4 T peanut or vegetable oil
8 ounces dried rice stick noodles, 1/8 inch wide (width of linguine)
2 large eggs
1/4 tsp salt
12 ounces medium shrimp, peeled and deveined
3 garlic cloves, pressed through garlic press or minced (1 TB)
1 medium shallot, minced (about 3 TB)
2 TB dried shrimp, chopped fine (optional)
2 TB chopped Thai salted preserved radish
6 TB chopped roasted unsalted peanuts
3 cups 6 ounces bean sprouts
5 medium scallions, green parts only, sliced think on sharp bias
1/4 cup loosely packed cilantro leaves, optional
Lime wedges for serving


Instructions

Rehydrate tamarind paste in boiling water (Soak for 10 minutes, then push it through a mesh strainer to remove the seeds and fibers and extract as much pulp as possible).

Stir fish sauce, rice vinegar, sugar, cayenne and 2 TB oil into tamarind liquid and set aside.

Cover rice sticks with hot tap water in large bowl; soak until softened, pliable and limp but not fully tender, about 20 minutes.

Drain noodles and set aside.

Beat eggs and 1/8 tsp salt in small bowl; set aside

Heat 1 TB oil in 12-inch skillet over high heat until just beginning to smoke, about 2 minutes.

Add shrimp and sprinkle with remaining 1/8 tsp salt; cook, tossing occasionally, until shrimp are opaque and browned around the edges, about 3 minutes.

Transfer shrimp to a plate and set aside

Off heat, add remaining TB oil to skillet and swirl to coat; add garlic and shallot, set skillet over medium heat and cook, stirring constantly until light golden brown, about 1 
1/2 minutes; add eggs to skillet and stir vigorously with wooden spoon until scrambled and barely moist, about 20 seconds.

Add noodles, dried shrimp, and salted radish to eggs; toss with 2 wooden spoons to combine.

Pour fish sauce mixture over noodles, increase heat to high, and cook, tossing constantly, until noodles are evenly coated.

Scatter 1/4 cup peanuts, bean sprouts, all but 1/4 cup scallions and cooked shrimp over noodles; continue to cook, tossing constantly until noodles are tender, about 2 1/2 minutes (if not yet tender add 2 TB water to skillet and continue to cook until tender).

Transfer noodles to serving platter, sprinkle with remaining scallions, 2 TB peanuts and cilantro. Serve immediately with lime wedges