Ermine Frosting (flour frosting) Recipe

1 ounce all-purpose flour (about 3 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons; 28g)
6 ounces milk, any percentage will do (about 3/4 cup; 170g)
3 1/4 ounces (96 g) plain or toasted sugar (see note)
Heaping 1/4 teaspoon (1.5 g) Diamond Crystal kosher salt, plus more to taste; for table salt, use about half as much by volume or the same weight
6 ounces (160g) unsalted butter, softened to about 65°F (18°C)
1/4 ounce vanilla extract (1 1/2 teaspoons; 7g), plus more to taste

Directions

In a 10-inch skillet or 3-quart saucier, whisk together flour and milk. Place over medium heat, whisking constantly, and cook until thick and pudding-like, about 2 minutes. Off heat, add sugar and salt. Whisk until sugar has dissolved and the "pudding" is homogeneous but thin. Scrape mixture into a wide, shallow dish, such as a pie plate, and cool to approximately 70°F (21°C).

Place butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on low until the butter looks smooth, then increase speed to medium and beat until soft and light, about 5 minutes. Begin adding the cooled pudding, a few tablespoons at a time. Once it's fully incorporated, pause to scrape bowl and beater with a flexible spatula, then resume beating until perfectly smooth.

Switch to the whisk attachment and add vanilla. Whip on low to combine, then increase speed to medium-high and continue whipping until silky-smooth and soft, with a light, melt-in-your-mouth consistency, about 3 minutes more, or to a working temperature of approximately 75°F (24°C). Season to taste with additional salt and/or vanilla as needed. Use immediately, or consult the troubleshooting guide below to address any textural inconsistencies.

Troubleshooting: If the frosting feels dense, stiff, greasy, or curdled, it is likely too cold; to warm, briefly set over a pan of steaming water, just until you see the edges melting slightly, then re-whip. If the frosting feels soft and loose, it is likely too warm. Pop it in the fridge for 15 minutes to cool, then re-whip.

Make-Ahead and Storage

In a quart-sized, heavy-duty zip-top bag, the frosting can be refrigerated for one week or frozen for several months. Before use, thaw to about 70°F (21°C) and re-whip until smooth, consulting the troubleshooting guide above as needed to address textural concerns.


