Fluffy Baked Polenta with Red Sauce

POLENTA
4 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 garlic cloves, peeled and smashed
7 cups water
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1 1/2 cups yellow cornmeal
3 ounces Pecorino Romano Cheese; grated (1 1/2 cups)
1/4 cup half and half

RED SAUCE
14.5 can whole peeled tomatoes
1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil
1 onion, peeled and halved through the root end
15 ounce can tomato sauce
1 ounce Pecorino Romano Cheese; grated (1/2 cup)
1 1/2 tablespoons sugar
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder

FOR THE POLENTA: Lightly grease 8-inch square baking pan. Heat butter and oil in Dutch oven over medium heat until butter is melted. Add garlic and cook until lightly golden, about 4 minutes. ­Discard garlic.

Add water, salt, and pepper to butter mixture. Increase heat to medium-high and bring to boil. Add cornmeal in slow, steady stream, whisking constantly. Reduce heat to medium-low and continue to cook, whisking frequently and scraping sides and bottom of pot, until mixture is thick and cornmeal is tender, about 20 minutes.

Off heat, whisk in Pecorino and half-and-half. Transfer to prepared pan and let cool completely on wire rack. Once cooled, cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until completely chilled, at least 3 hours.

FOR THE RED SAUCE: Process tomatoes and their juice in blender until smooth, about 30 seconds. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in large saucepan over medium heat until shimmering. Add onion, cut side down, and cook without moving until lightly browned, about 4 minutes. Add pureed tomatoes, tomato sauce, Pecorino, sugar, salt, garlic powder, and remaining 3 tablespoons oil. Bring mixture to boil, reduce heat to medium-low, and simmer until sauce is slightly thickened, about 15 minutes. Remove from heat, discard onion, cover, and keep warm.

Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 375 degrees. Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper, then grease parchment. Cut chilled polenta into 6 equal pieces (about 4 by 2 2/3 inches each). Place on prepared sheet and bake until heated through and beginning to brown on bottom, about 30 minutes. Serve each portion covered with about 1/2 cup red sauce.