From-The-Freezer Stuffed Peppers

Serves 4 to 6

If you don't have leftover rice on hand, we recommend Uncle Ben's Ready Rice. We prefer sweet red peppers in this recipe; green peppers, while traditional, were too bitter. Ground turkey can be substituted for the beef.

Peppers and Stuffing
1 	tablespoon olive oil 
1 	medium onion , chopped fine
8 	ounces 85% lean ground beef 
4 	ounces hot or mild Italian sausage , casings removed
	Table salt and ground black pepper 
4 	cloves garlic , minced
2 	cups cooked long-grain rice 
	1 can (14 1/2 ounces) diced tomatoes , drained
1 	cup shredded mozzarella cheese 
1/2 	cup grated Parmesan cheese 
3 	tablespoons chopped fresh parsley leaves  
4 	medium red bell peppers , cut in half through stem end (stem left intact), cored, and seeded

For Serving
2 	tablespoons olive oil 
	Table salt and ground black pepper 
1 	cup shredded mozzarella cheese 

1. For the peppers: Heat oil in large skillet over medium heat until shimmering. Cook onion until softened and beginning to brown, about 5 minutes. Increase heat to medium-high and add beef, sausage, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper; cook, breaking meat into small pieces with wooden spoon, until meat begins to brown, 6 to 8 minutes. Add garlic and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Drain mixture in colander for 1 minute.

2. Transfer meat mixture to large bowl and mix with rice, tomatoes, mozzarella, Parmesan, parsley, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Refrigerate until well chilled, at least 20 minutes.

3. Spoon filling evenly into bell peppers. Wrap each pepper with 2 layers of plastic wrap and 1 layer of foil. Place in baking dish and freeze until firm. Transfer to zipper-lock plastic bag and freeze up to 2 months.

4. When ready to serve: Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 450 degrees. Cut 8 pieces foil large enough to just cover stuffing in peppers, and spray with cooking spray. Unwrap peppers and cover filling sides with new foil squares. Using skewer, poke several holes through foil. Place peppers, foil side down, over vents of slotted broiler-pan top set over broiler-pan bottom. Brush peppers with oil and season with salt and pepper to taste. Bake until peppers are spotty brown, 30 to 35 minutes. Flip peppers filling side up, remove foil, and sprinkle with mozzarella. Bake until cheese is melted, about 5 minutes. Let rest 5 minutes before serving.