Giblet Pan Gravy for a Crowd

Makes about 2 quarts.   Published November 1, 2002.  

To eliminate the rush to make gravy once the turkey emerges from the oven, this gravy is brought close to completion while the turkey roasts. (If you prefer, prepare the gravy through step 2 one day in advance, refrigerate the gravy, and then bring it back to a simmer as the turkey nears completion.) Once the bird is out of the oven, the gravy is enriched with defatted turkey drippings and heated through.
Ingredients
1 	tablespoon vegetable oil
	reserved turkey neck , heart, and gizzard
1 	onion , unpeeled and chopped medium
6 	cups low-sodium chicken broth
3 	cups water
2 	sprigs fresh thyme
8 	parsley stems
5 	tablespoons unsalted butter
1/4 	cup unbleached all-purpose flour
2 	tablespoons unbleached all-purpose flour
1 1/2 	cups dry white wine
	Table salt and ground black pepper

	Instructions

Heat oil in large heavy-bottomed saucepan over medium-high heat until shimmering but not smoking; add turkey neck, heart, and gizzard and cook, stirring occasionally, until browned, about 5 minutes. Add onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 3 minutes. Reduce heat to low; cover and cook, stirring occasionally, until turkey parts and onion release their juices, about 20 minutes. Add chicken broth, water, and herbs; increase heat to medium-high and bring to boil, then reduce heat to low and simmer, uncovered, skimming any scum that rises to surface, until broth is rich and flavorful, about 30 minutes. Strain broth (you should have about 8 cups), reserving heart and gizzard; discard neck. When cool enough to handle, remove gristle from gizzard; dice heart and gizzard and set aside.

Heat butter in large heavy-bottomed saucepan over medium-low heat; when foam subsides, whisk in flour. Cook, stirring constantly, until nutty brown and fragrant, about 10 minutes; gradually and vigorously whisk in giblet broth and wine. Increase heat to medium-high and bring to boil, then reduce heat to medium-low and simmer, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened and flavorful, about 30 minutes; set aside until turkey is done.

While turkey is resting on carving board, spoon out and discard as much fat as possible from roasting pan, then strain drippings into saucepan with gravy, pressing on solids in strainer to extract as much liquid as possible. Stir in reserved giblets; return to simmer to heat through. Adjust seasonings with salt and pepper; serve with turkey.


