Layered Cream Cheese and Salsa Dip

8 oz brick style cream cheese softened to room temperature
1 cup sour cream
1 1/2 teaspoons taco seasoning
1 1/2 cups thick salsa
2 cups shredded Mexican blend cheese


Add the softened cream cheese, sour cream, and taco seasoning to a medium-sized bowl. Beat the cream cheese together with the other ingredients using a handheld electric mixer. Continue to mix until smooth and uniform, scraping down the sides of the bowl as needed.

Add the cream cheese mixture to the bottom of a 9" round or square baking dish and spread it into an even layer.

If your cream cheese was very soft (could easily press a finger through it), refrigerate the first layer for 30 minutes before adding the salsa. If it was still relatively firm, go ahead with the next layer. If your salsa is thin and liquidy, pour it through a strainer set over a bowl. The liquid will collect below and can be discarded.

Spread drained or chunky salsa in an even layer on top of the cream cheese and sour cream layer.

Finally, top it with your shredded cheese, spreading it out evenly.

Serve immediately if desired, or refrigerate for 30 minutes before serving for the best results.

Making Ahead: Prepare all of the layers of the dip and wrap tightly in plastic wrap. Store in the fridge for up to 8 hours.
If you would like to make your dip more than 8 hours in advance: prepare the cream cheese and sour cream layer. Wrap the dish tightly with plastic wrap and store it in the fridge for up to 48 hours. Add the salsa and shredded cheese just before serving, allowing the base layer to soften at room temperature for 30 minutes first.

Baked Cream Cheese Salsa Dip: Prepare your dip in an oven safe 9" round or square baking dish. Bake in a 375ºF oven for 25-35 minutes or until bubbly and hot. Broil for 1-2 minutes at the end of the cooking time for an extra bubbly dip.

With Ground Beef: Brown half of a pound of lean ground beef with 1 teaspoon of taco seasoning. Drain any excess fat. Add the ground beef after the salsa layer and top with cheese. Serve as a cold dip, or bake for 25-35 minutes at 375ºF for a hot dip.

Homemade Taco Seasoning:

Makes 2 1/2 - 3 Tablespoons. The recipe uses 1 1/2 teaspoons. Store leftovers in an airtight container.
1 tablespoon chili powder1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon cornstarch (or arrowroot powder), 1/2 teaspoon paprika. 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder. 1/4 teaspoon onion powder, 1/4 teaspoon dried oregano.