Massaman Curry Recipe

1 1/2 lbs. boneless skinless chicken breast or thighs, cut into bite-size
1 tablespoon light olive oil
1/2 inch ginger grated or pureed
2 cloves garlic grated or pureed
4 oz Maesri Thai Masaman Curry (1 can) (substitute 2 oz Red curry paste, 1 teaspoon coriander, 1 teaspoon cumin powder).

2 medium carrots peeled, chopped into 1/2-inch pieces
1 medium onion cut in cubes or sliced
14 oz. baby corn (fresh or canned) cut into 1/2-inch pieces
28 oz. coconut milk (2 cans, full-fat)

Add after cooking the curry

1 cup french beans cut in bite size pieces
1 cup broccoli florets
A light squeeze of lime before serving

 
Instant Pot Method

Saute chicken: Preheat the Instant Pot on Saute mode and add oil, ginger, garlic, curry paste, and chicken. 

Add veggies and coconut milk: Sauté for 30-45 seconds then add carrots, onions, and baby corn. Stir in coconut milk and mix well.

Pressure Cook: Wait till the curry starts bubbling. This prevents the coconut milk from curdling under pressure. Cancel Saute, close the lid, and pressure cook for 5 minutes at high pressure.

Release pressure: Once done, let the pressure release naturally for 5 mins, then release manually. Open the lid after the pin drops.  

Add delicate veggies: Turn on Saute. Add green beans and simmer until they cook to your preferred doneness. Now add broccoli florets and let them cook in the pot for a few minutes. Cancel Saute.

Finish: Squeeze a few drops of lime juice to finish this dish and serve with rice of choice.

Stovetop Recipe

Saute: Heat oil in a saucepan on medium-high heat. Add ginger, garlic, curry paste, and chicken, and sauté for 30-45 seconds.  Add carrots, onions, green beans, and baby corn, and stir.

Add coconut milk: Shake the coconut cans before opening and pour into the pan scrapping all the cream from the sides of the can. Stir well.

Simmer: When the curry starts bubbling, reduce the heat to medium, cover the pan, and simmer for 12-15 minutes, or until the chicken and vegetables are cooked and tender.

Add delicate vegetables: Add the broccoli florets and let them cook in the curry for 3 minutes or until they cook to your desired tenderness.

Finish and garnish: Turn off the heat and squeeze a few drops of lime juice to finish this dish. Garnish with chopped Thai or regular basil and enjoy!