Moroccan Lamb Tangine with Green Couscous

2T Paprika
1T Ground coriander
1T Tumeric
2t Cinnamon
2t Cumin
2t Black Pepper
1.5kg (3lb 5oz) Lamb Shoulder, cut into 1 1/2 in chunks)
4 Garlic gloves, chopped
1 in Ginger Root, chopped
3 Onions, roughly chopped
2T Canola oil
2 cups Tomato juice
2 cups Chicken stock
2T Honey
8oz Dates, cut in half with stones removed
2oz toasted flaked almonds

For the Couscous

12oz couscous
6T canola oil
Juice of 2 lemons
2 cups chicken stock
4T parsley chopped
2oz dried apricots, finely chopped
Maldon sea salt and pepper
Greek yogurt and Cilantro leaves

Mix the paprika coriander turmeric cinnamon cumin and pepper together in a large bowl. Then tip half into a small bowl and set aside. Add the lamb to the large bowl and coat in the spices. Cover with plastic wrap and chill overnight. 

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees Fahrenheit . Place the garlic ginger and onions into a food processor and pulse until finely minced. 

Heat a large heavy based casserole dish. Add half the oil and brown off the marinated lamb in batches. Add the remaining oil to the pan and then add the onion mixture. Cook for a few minutes until softened but not colored. Stir in the reserved spice mixture and cook for another minute or so until well combined. 

Pour the tomato juice an stock into the pan add the brown land with the honey, sterling to combine. Bring to a boil, cover, and transfer to the oven. Cook for one hour period then stir in the dates and cook for another hour until the lamb is completely tender in the sauce has thickened and reduced. Season to taste. 

To make the couscous, place it in a large bowl and add 4 tablespoons of the oil and lemon juice. Mix well, ensuring that all the grains are completely coated. Heat the stock in a small pan and season generously. Pour over the couscous and allowed to sit in a warm place for six to 8 minutes until all the liquid has absorbed, stirring occasionally period to serve stir the remaining oil in with the herbs and apricots into the couscous and arrange on a warm serving plates with that tangine. Scatter over the toasted almonds and then garnish with a gulp of Greek yogurt and cilantro leaves  

