Pad Thai (Kenji)


6 ounces (170 g) pad Thai noodles (¼-inch-wide dry rice noodles)
2 ounces (60 g) palm sugar or dark brown sugar
3 tablespoons (45 ml) fish sauce
3 tablespoons (45 ml) prepared tamarind pulp (see here)
1 teaspoon ground Thai chile (optional; see Notes above)
1/4 cup (60 ml) vegetable oil
1 medium shallot (about 11/2 ounces/45 g), thinly sliced
3 medium garlic cloves (8 g), smashed with the side of a knife and roughly chopped
2 tablespoons (5 g) dried small shrimp (optional; see Notes)
1 tablespoon (15 ml) shrimp paste (optional)
3 tablespoons (20 g) chopped preserved sweet radish (optional; see Notes)
8 ounces (225 g) large shrimp, peeled (see Notes above)
2 large eggs
1 cup (about 3 ounces/90 g) mung bean sprouts
5 or 6 Chinese garlic chives (about 3 ounces/90 g), sliced on a sharp bias into 1- to 2-inch pieces (see Notes above)
4 ounces (120 g) baked or super firm tofu, cut into 1/2- by 1/2- by 2-inch blocks
1/2 cup (80 g) roasted peanuts or Fried Peanuts (LINK 2), gently crushed in a mortar and pestle


Place the noodles in a bowl and cover with warm water. Let the noodles soak, agitating them occasionally, until they are soft enough to bend without breaking, but not mushy, about 20 minutes. Drain through a fine-mesh strainer and reserve.

For the Sauce: Place the palm sugar in a mortar and pestle and pound until it is fully crushed. Add the fish sauce, tamarind pulp, and ground chile and grind with a circular motion with the mortar and pestle until the sugar is dissolved. If you don’t have a mortar and pestle, you can crush the palm sugar on a firm countertop under a heavy pot, then stir it into the fish sauce and tamarind pulp to dissolve. (Also, get a mortar and pestle.)

Before You Stir-fry, Get Your Bowls Ready:

Garlic and shallots
Noodles
Sauce, dried shrimp, shrimp paste, and preserved radish (if using)
Raw shrimp
Eggs
Bean sprouts, Chinese garlic chives, and tofu


For the Stir-Fry: Heat 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the oil in a wok over high heat until shimmering. Add the garlic and shallots and cook, stirring, until fragrant and softened but not browned, about 30 seconds.

Add the noodles, followed by the sauce, dried shrimp, shrimp paste, and preserved radish. Stir and toss vigorously until the noodles have absorbed about half the sauce, about 45 seconds.

Push the noodles to the side of the wok, then position the wok so that the burner is mainly heating the now-empty space. Add the shrimp to the empty space and cook them, stirring and flipping occasionally, until they are no longer translucent on either side, about 45 seconds. Toss everything in the pan together.

Push the noodles and shrimp to the side of the wok again and position the wok so that the burner is mainly heating the now-empty space. Add the remaining 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of oil, then add the eggs. Let them cook until just starting to set, about 10 seconds, then break them up with the spatula and scramble them.

Add the bean sprouts, Chinese garlic chives, and tofu, toss everything together, and stir-fry until the chives and bean sprouts are wilted and the noodles have begun to crisp and char in spots, about 1 minute longer.

Transfer to a serving platter and sprinkle with the peanuts. Serve immediately, passing lime wedges, raw garlic chives and bean sprouts, and table condiments for each diner to customize the dish as desired.

WORKING WITH TAMARIND Tamarind is the fruit of a hardwood tree indigenous to Africa that has spread throughout Southeast Asia and South America. It produces large brown, pod-like fruits that contain a sticky, very tart pulp. When shopping for tamarind, you’re likely to see it in one of three forms:

Tamarind concentrate is my last choice. It comes in plastic or glass jars. You can definitely use it in a pinch, but the flavor of concentrate is usually not particularly concentrated and lacks the punch of tamarind in its more natural forms.

Whole tamarind fruit are your second-best option. They are finger-shaped pods about 1 inch in diameter and 6 inches long. They typically come packed in plastic-wrapped cardboard boxes. To use whole tamarind fruit, you must first break open the hard outer pods, then soak the pulpy fruit in warm water and strain out the resulting concentrated tamarind paste.

Tamarind pulp sold in block form is the best way to buy tamarind. With most ingredients, I find that the closer you can get it to its natural state, the better the flavor. With tamarind, this is not the case—the block stuff is just as good as the whole pods, and significantly easier to work with.

Tamarind pulp can be found at any Asian supermarket and most Latin markets as well. It’s sold in plastic wrappers and typically stored at room temperature. Check the fresh produce aisle underneath the fresh produce display bins. Once you get it home and open the package, you can break off just as much as you need for a given recipe, rewrap the rest, and store it in the fridge for several months; its high acidity and sugar content make it an inhospitable environment for bacteria or molds to grow on. (I’ve never had a block of tamarind go bad on me.) Tamarind contains lots of inedible fibers and seeds, so you need to prepare it with hot water before using it. Here’s how you do it.

Step 1 Add Hot Water

Break off as much tamarind as you need, place it in a bowl, then add a roughly equal quantity of hot water.

2. step 2 Massage the tamarind with your fingertips to loosen the pulp. Keep going, breaking up any large masses of pulp you feel. In the end it should feel like very loose, squishy mud with fibers running through it (and, depending on the brand, some hard, woody seeds).

3. Step 3 Strain It Scrape the pulp out into a fine-mesh strainer set over a clean bowl, then, using a rubber spatula, push the pulp through the strainer, going back and forth and stopping to scrape the inside of the strainer free of excess fibers every once in a while until you’ve extracted as much concentrated pulp as you can. Discard the fibers and seeds. Prepared tamarind pulp can be stored in the fridge for several weeks and can be used in place of lime or lemon juice in things like salad dressings, sauces, or cocktails.


PRIK NAM SOM Yield Makes 1 cup Active Time 3 minutes Total Time 3 minutes

Prik nam som is an essential table condiment that pairs especially well with noodle dishes such as Pad See Ew, but it’s also great with congee, soups, and egg dishes.

INGREDIENTS

1/2 cup (120 ml) distilled white vinegar
1/2 cup (120 ml) cup boiling water
1 tablespoon (12.5 g) sugar
A few garlic cloves
1/2 cup thinly sliced serrano or Thai bird chiles

DIRECTIONS Combine all the ingredients in a jar. Allow to cool. Prik nam som can be stored indefinitely in a cool, dark pantry.


NAM PLA PRIK Yield About 1/2 cup Active Time 2 minutes Total Time 2 minutes

At its most basic, nam pla prik is simply fish sauce (nam pla) and thinly sliced Thai bird chiles (prik), and it can be as simple as combining those two ingredient, no recipe or special technique needed. Other versions of the sauce will include garlic, shallots, lime juice, and/or sugar. In my fridge I typically keep a fish-sauce-heavy version made with Thai bird chiles, garlic, and sugar that lasts for months, as well as a simple sliced chile and fish sauce version. Lime juice adds some nice refreshing acidity to the mix, but adding it will reduce its shelf life, so I prefer to squeeze in fresh lime juice at the table rather than mix it directly into my big batch of nam pla prik. Make sure to wear gloves or really scrub your hands after working with this volume of chiles. Though it’s not a common method, I like using the mortar and pestle for this—it draws more flavor out of the garlic and chiles, and keeps your cutting board from absorbing tough-to-remove chile and garlic aromas. You can also chop the chiles in a mini-chopper or food processor, pulsing the machine to roughly chop (rather than puree) the chiles (just be careful when opening the lid, as atomized chile juice can hurt your eyes and nose).

INGREDIENTS

10 to 30 fresh Thai bird chiles (red or a mix of red and green)
2 to 4 medium garlic cloves (optional)
2 tablespoons palm sugar (optional)
1/2 cup fish sauce

To Serve:

Lime wedges

DIRECTIONS

Trim the tops off the chiles and roughly chop. Trim and peel the garlic cloves (if using) and smash with the side of a knife. Place the chiles and garlic in a mortar and smash with a pestle to form a rough paste. Add the sugar (if using) and smash with the pestle until the sugar is dissolved and the mixture is a fine paste. Add the fish sauce and stir with the pestle until homogenous. Transfer to a sealed container. Nam pla prik can be stored at room temperature for several days or in the fridge for several months or more. If desired, stir in some fresh lime juice just before serving.


Brine:

1/2 liter (500 g/about 2 cups) very cold water

12.5 g salt (see NOTE below)

10 g (about 2 teaspoons) baking soda

Combine the water, salt, and baking soda in a bowl and stir until the salt and baking soda are dissolved. Add the shrimp and stir to separate them and ensure the brine flows all around. Add the ice cubes and let the shrimp brine for at least 15 minutes and up to 30.

NOTE 12.5 grams is about 1⅓ tablespoons Diamond Crystal kosher salt, 1 tablespoon Morton’s kosher salt, or 21/2 teaspoons table salt. Note that the same brine ingredient quantities can be used for any amount of shrimp, so long as they are completely submerged in brine. This recipe is listed in metric units first, as metric units make calculating ratios and scaling quantities simple.

FRIED PEANUTS Yield Makes 1 cup Active Time 5 minutes Total Time 25 minutes

NOTE The oil you use to fry the peanuts can be strained through a fine-mesh strainer lined with a coffee filter and used again for stir-frying or deep frying.

INGREDIENTS

1 cup (150 g) raw peanuts

1 cup peanut, rice bran, or other neutral oil

Peanuts make frequent appearances alongside noodles to add crunch and nutty flavor. The easiest way to incorporate them into your pantry is to just buy jars of roasted salted peanuts, which can be lightly crushed in a mortar and pestle or under a heavy skillet before sprinkling on your noodles, but for better flavor and texture, try frying your own raw peanuts. They get considerably crisper and have a deeper, nuttier aroma than regular roasted peanuts. They’re also easy to do in bulk and last a long time in a cool, dark pantry. They are a classic topping for dan dan noodles and pad Thai, among other dishes.

DIRECTIONS

Combine the peanuts and oil in a wok. Heat over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until the peanuts start to bubble gently. Reduce the heat to maintain a very gentle bubble around the peanuts (the oil should register around 250°F on an instant-read thermometer) and cook at this temperature, stirring occasionally, until the peanuts are a light, even golden brown and have a toasty aroma, about 20 minutes.

Retrieve the peanuts with a fine-mesh strainer or metal spider and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet lined with a few layers of paper towels or a clean kitchen towel. Let the peanuts cool a little, then blot off excess oil with more paper towels or a kitchen towel. When completely cool, transfer the peanuts to a sealed container and store in a cool, dark pantry for 2 to 3 months. (The peanuts will start to smell a little fishy if they have turned rancid. They are still safe to eat; they just won’t taste very good.)










