Fresh Peach Cobbler
Source: Cooks Illustrated
Yeild: Serves 6


If your peaches are firm, you should be able to peel them with a vegetable peeler. If they are too soft and ripe to withstand the pressure of a peeler, you'll need to blanch and shock them before peeling. In the biscuit topping, low-fat or nonfat plain yogurt can be used in place of whole milk yogurt, but the biscuits will be a little less rich. If you live in an arid climate, the biscuit dough may require up to an additional tablespoon of yogurt for it to form a cohesive dough. Do not prepare the biscuit dough any sooner than the recipe indicates; if the unbaked dough is left to stand too long, the leavener will expire and the biscuits will not rise properly in the oven. This recipe can be doubled to serve a crowd. Use a 13 by 9-inch baking dish and increase the baking times in steps 2 and 4 by about 5 minutes. Serve the warm cobbler with vanilla ice cream or whipped cream. Leftovers can be reheated in a 350-degree oven until warmed through.


Filling
2 1/2 	pounds peaches , ripe but firm (6 to 7 medium)
1/4 	cup granulated sugar (1 3/4 ounces)
1 	teaspoon cornstarch 
1 	tablespoon lemon juice from 1 lemon
	pinch table salt 

Biscuit Topping
1 	cup unbleached all-purpose flour (5 ounces)
3 	tablespoons granulated sugar 
3/4 	teaspoon baking powder 
1/4 	teaspoon baking soda 
1/4 	teaspoon table salt 
5 	tablespoons unsalted butter (cold), cut into 1/4-inch cubes
1/3 	cup plain whole milk yogurt 
1 	teaspoon granulated sugar 
	
Sugaring the sliced peaches and draining the excess juice ensures a crisp biscuit topping.


1. Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 425 degrees.

2. For the filling: Peel peaches (see note), then halve and pit each. Using small spoon, scoop out and discard dark flesh from pit area. Cut each half into 4 wedges. Gently toss peaches and sugar together in large bowl; let stand for 30 minutes, tossing several times. Drain peaches in colander set over large bowl. Whisk 1/4 cup of drained juice (discard extra), cornstarch, lemon juice, and salt together in small bowl. Toss peach juice mixture with peach slices and transfer to 8-inch-square glass baking dish. Bake until peaches begin to bubble around edges, about 10 minutes.

3. For the topping: While peaches are baking, in food processor, pulse flour, 3 tablespoons sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt to combine. Scatter butter over and pulse until mixture resembles coarse meal, about ten 1-second pulses. Transfer to medium bowl; add yogurt and toss with rubber spatula until cohesive dough is formed. (Don't overmix dough or biscuits will be tough.) Break dough into 6 evenly sized but roughly shaped mounds and set aside.

4. To assemble and bake: After peaches have baked 10 minutes, remove peaches from oven and place dough mounds on top, spacing them at least 1/2 inch apart (they should not touch). Sprinkle each mound with portion of remaining 1 teaspoon sugar. Bake until topping is golden brown and fruit is bubbling, 16 to 18 minutes. Cool cobbler on wire rack until warm, about 20 minutes; serve.


