QUICK DUTCH APPLE CRISP

INGREDIENTS
Apple Filling
2 1/2	pounds Granny Smith apples (about 5 medium)
2	pounds McIntosh apples (about 4 medium)
1/4	cup granulated sugar
1/2	teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/8	teaspoon table salt
2	tablespoons unsalted butter
3/4	cup golden raisins
1/2	cup heavy cream
Streusel Topping
1 1/4	cups unbleached all-purpose flour (6 1/2 ounces)
1/3	cup packed light brown sugar
1/3	cup granulated sugar
1	tablespoon cornmeal
7	tablespoons unsalted butter , melted

INSTRUCTIONS

Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 425 degrees.

For the apple filling: Peel, quarter, and core apples; slice each quarter crosswise into pieces 1/4-inch thick. Toss apples, sugar, cinnamon, and salt in large bowl to combine. Heat butter in large Dutch oven over high heat until foaming subsides; add apples and toss to coat. Reduce heat to medium-high and cook, covered, stirring occasionally, until apples are softened, about 5 minutes. Stir in raisins; cook, covered, stirring occasionally, until Granny Smith apple slices are tender and McIntosh apple slices are softened and beginning to break down, about 5 minutes longer.

Set large colander over large bowl; transfer cooked apples to colander. Shake colander and toss apples to drain off as much juice as possible. Bring drained juice and cream to boil in now-empty Dutch oven over high heat; cook, stirring occasionally, until thickened and wooden spoon leaves trail in mixture, about 5 minutes. Transfer apples to 8-inch square baking dish; pour reduced juice mixture over and smooth with rubber spatula.

For the streusel topping: Combine flour, sugars, and cornmeal in medium bowl; drizzle with melted butter and toss with fork until evenly moistened and mixture forms many large chunks with pea-sized pieces mixed throughout. Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper and spread streusel in even layer on baking sheet. Bake streusel until golden brown, about 5 minutes; cool baking sheet with streusel on wire rack until cool enough to handle, about 5 minutes. Sprinkle streusel evenly over pie filling. Set pie plate on now-empty baking sheet and bake until streusel topping is deep golden brown, about 10 minutes. Cool on wire rack and serve.

