Raspberry Chiffon Pie
Serves 8 to 10

The heavy cream must be ice cold; if not, it won't hold stiff peaks, no matter how long or hard you beat it. Soften the cream cheese at room temperature; the microwave will cause the cheese to separate.


Fruit Layer
12	ounces frozen raspberries (2 cups)
3	tablespoons powdered pectin (Sure-Jell)
1 1/2	cups sugar 
Pinch table salt 
1	cup fresh raspberries 
1	(9-inch) pie shell , baked and cooled (see related recipe)

Chiffon Layer
3	tablespoons gelatin , raspberry flavored
3	tablespoons boiling water 
3	ounces cream cheese , softened
1	cup heavy cream , chilled

Whipped Cream Topping
1 1/4	cups heavy cream , chilled
2	tablespoons sugar 

1. For the fruit layer: Cook frozen berries in medium saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until berries begin to give up their juice, about 3 minutes. Stir in pectin and bring to full boil, stirring constantly. Stir in sugar and salt and return to full boil. Cook, stirring constantly, until slightly thickened, about 2 minutes. Pour through fine-mesh strainer into medium bowl, pressing on solids to extract as much puree as possible. Scrape puree off underside of strainer into bowl.

2. Transfer 1/3 cup raspberry puree to small bowl and cool to room temperature. Gently fold fresh raspberries into remaining puree. Spread fruit mixture evenly over bottom of pie shell and set aside.

3. For the chiffon layer: Dissolve gelatin in boiling water in large bowl. Add cream cheese and reserved 1/3 cup raspberry puree and beat with electric mixer on high speed, scraping down sides of bowl once or twice, until smooth, about 2 minutes. Add 1 cup cream and beat on medium-low until incorporated, about 30 seconds. Scrape down bowl. Beat on high speed until cream holds stiff peaks, 1 to 2 minutes. Spread evenly over fruit in pie shell. Cover pie with plastic wrap. Refrigerate until set, at least 3 hours or up to 2 days.

4. For the whipped cream topping: When ready to serve, beat 1 1/4 cups cream and sugar to stiff peaks. Spread or pipe over chilled filling. Serve.

Blind Baking: 375 degree, lower middle rack. Double layer line crust with foil, bake 25-30 minutes until dry and light in color. 5-6 minutes for paritally baked. Deep golden brown 12 minutes 