Ricotta Cheesecake
Serves 8 to 10

The ricotta cheese must be drained in the refrigerator for at least 8 hours (or overnight). To drain the cheese, line a fine-mesh sieve with two layers of paper towels, place the cheese in the sieve, place the sieve over a bowl, and refrigerate.

Amaretti Cookie Crust
2 heaping cups (4 ounces) amaretti
cookies, processed in a food processor until uniformly fine
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus 1 tablespoon melted butter for greasing the pan

Ricotta Filling
2 pounds ricotta cheese, drained
4 large eggs, separated
3/4 cup (5 1/4 ounces) sugar
1/4 cup rum
1 tablespoon unbleached all-purpose flour
Grated zest of 1 medium lemon
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt

1. Adjust an oven rack to the lower-middle position and heat the oven to 325 degrees. In a small bowl, combine the amaretti crumbs and 5 tablespoons melted butter and toss with a fork until evenly moistened. Brush the bottom and sides of a 9-inch springform pan with most of the remaining 1 tablespoon melted butter, making sure to leave enough to brush the sides of the pan after the crust cools. Empty the crumbs into the springform pan and press them evenly into the pan bottom. Bake until fragrant and beginning to brown around the edges, about 13 minutes. Cool the pan on a wire rack while making the filling. (Do not turn off the oven.) Brush the sides of the springform pan with the remaining melted butter.
2. Place the drained ricotta in the workbowl of a food processor fitted with a metal blade. Process until very smooth, about 1 minute. Add the egg yolks, sugar, rum, flour, lemon zest, vanilla, and salt and process until blended, about 1 more minute. Scrape the mixture into a large bowl.
3. Beat the egg whites in a clean bowl on high speed with a handheld or standing mixer until they hold stiff peaks. Fold the whites into the ricotta mixture and pour the mixture evenly into the cooled crust.
4. Bake the cheesecake until the top is lightly browned and an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center registers about 150 degrees, about 1 hour and 15 minutes. (The perimeter of the cake should be firm, but the center will jiggle slightly. It will solidify further as the cake cools.) Transfer the pan to a wire rack and cool for 5 minutes. Run a paring knife between the cake and the side of the springform pan. Cool until barely warm, 2 1/2 to 3 hours. Wrap the pan tightly in plastic wrap and refrigerate until the cheesecake is cold and set, at least 5 hours or up to 2 days.
5. To unmold the cheesecake, remove the sides of the pan. Let the cheesecake stand at room temperature for about 30 minutes, then cut it into wedges and serve.




Written: September,2002