Slow Cooker Beef Shanks with Garlic and Herbs
Author: Marjorie @ This is so good...
Ingredients
Ghee, butter, or coconut oil for frying
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
5 pounds of beef shanks (about 5­6 shanks)
1 large sweet onion, diced
8­10 large garlic cloves, skins removed but left whole
½ teaspoon sea salt
2 cups of homemade stock
2 Tablespoons tomato paste
4­5 anchovies, minced
8 sprigs of fresh thyme
1 sprig of fresh rosemary
Minced chives and parsley for garnishing, optional
Instructions
1. In a large frying pan over medium heat, melt enough of the fat of your choice to cover the bottom of the pan.
2. Season the shanks on both sides with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.
3. Place two to three of the shanks in the pan and brown them on both sides, about 4­5 minutes per side. Repeat
with the remaining shanks, adding more fat to the pan if needed.
4. Place the browned shanks into the slow cooker.
5. In the same frying pan, add a little more fat if needed to cover the bottom of the pan and add the diced onion,
garlic and ½ teaspoon sea salt, sautéing until the onions are translucent and the garlic cloves are slightly
browned, about 5 minutes.
6. Place the onions and garlic over the shanks in the slow cooker.
7. Return the frying pan to the heat and add the stock, tomato paste, and anchovies, stirring with a wooded spoon
to loosen up any browned bits from the bottom of the pan.
8. Turn off the heat and add the stock mixture to the slow cooker.
9. Tie the thyme and rosemary into a bundle with some kitchen twine and tuck it into the slow cooker, nestled
under the stock.
10. Turn your slow cooker to low and let the shanks cook for about 8 hours.
11. Before serving, remove the herb bundle. The leaves will have fallen off the stems and will flavor the sauce.
12. If serving right away, try to skim off some of the fat and season with additional salt and pepper if needed.
13. Plate with the side of your choice. We love this dish with cauliflower puree and minced chives and parsley for
garnishing.
14. I like to prepare the shanks over the weekend and then place my slow cooker insert into the refrigerator. The fat
will rise to the surface and harden, making it easier to remove. I then let the insert sit out for an hour or two
before placing it in the slow cooker on warm for several hours before serving.
