Sous Vide Carnitas

4 pounds (1.8kg) boneless pork shoulder, cut into 2-inch-thick slabs
1 medium onion, roughly chopped
6 medium cloves garlic
1 stick cinnamon, broken into 3 to 4 pieces
2 bay leaves
1 medium orange, peel intact
Kosher salt


Combine pork, onion, garlic, cinnamon stick, and bay leaves in a large bowl. Split orange into quarters and squeeze juice into bowl before adding rest of orange. Season generously with kosher salt and toss to combine.

Pork marinating with quartered onions, garlic, cinnamon, bay leaves, and quartered oranges.
Serious Eats / J. Kenji López-Alt
Transfer contents to a vacuum bag and seal (see note).

Sealing pork shoulder with bay leaves, cinnamon, onions, and oranges in a vacuum-seal bag before cooking sous vide for carnitas.
Serious Eats / J. Kenji López-Alt
When ready to cook, use a sous vide immersion circulator to preheat a water bath to the desired temperature according to the chart above.

Setting immersion circulator to 165F to cook sous vide carnitas.
Serious Eats / J. Kenji López-Alt
Add bag to water bath and cook for recommended time according to chart above. Make sure to top water up occasionally as it evaporates, and keep bag completely submerged. If bag floats, weigh it down by placing a wet kitchen towel on top of it. Alternatively, use a heavy-duty binder clip to attach a metal spoon or knife to bottom of bag as a weight.

Placing vacuum-sealed bag of pork shoulder and aromatics in a water bath to cook sous vide for carnitas.
Serious Eats / J. Kenji López-Alt
When meat is cooked, remove from water bath. If you are cooking the pork in advance and don’t plan to serve it the same day, cool pork to room temperature directly in the bag or chill in an ice bath, then transfer bag to refrigerator or freezer (pork can be refrigerated for up to 5 days, or frozen for up to 2 months). If finishing the carnitas the same day, transfer contents of bag to a large bowl. Pick out chunks of meat with a set of tongs and transfer them to a rimmed baking sheet. (Discard aromatics and excess liquid, or reserve liquid and blend it in with your salsa.) When it is cool enough to handle, shred meat roughly using 2 forks or your fingers. Spread evenly over baking sheet.

Placing shredded sous vide carnitas on a foil-lined baking sheet before crisping in the broiler.
Serious Eats / J. Kenji López-Alt
When ready to serve, adjust an oven rack to 3 inches below the broiler element and preheat broiler to high. Place pork under broiler and cook, using a spoon to flip pieces occasionally, until meat is browned and crisp on most sides, about 10 minutes total. Alternatively, working in batches, heat carnitas in a cast iron or nonstick skillet over medium heat, turning occasionally, until crisp, about 10 minutes.

Crisp sous vide carnitas on a foil-lined baking sheet.

Serve carnitas with warm tortillas, lime wedges, chopped onion and cilantro, and salsa.