Strawberry Shortcake Layer Cake

Sponge Cake

11/2 cups all-purpose flour 210g
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
4 large eggs separated, at room temperature
1 cup granulated sugar divided (200g)
1/4 cup vegetable oil 60ml
1/4 cup water warm (60ml)
1 teaspoon vanilla paste or extract
1/2 teaspoon lemon juice or white vinegar

Strawberry Simple Syrup
1/2 cup water 4oz
1/2 cup granulated sugar 100g
1/4 cup sliced strawberries about 3 large strawberries

Strawberry Puree (optional for decorating)
1/2 lb strawberries 8oz
3 tablespoons sugar 19g
1/2 tablespoon corn starch
1 tablespoon water

Strawberries for Filling
1 lb fresh strawberries sliced (16oz)

Whipped Cream Frosting
4 cups heavy whipping cream 960ml
3/4 cup powdered sugar 90g
2 teaspoons unflavored gelatin 8g
3 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon vanilla paste or extract

Preheat the oven to 350℉/180℃ and line the bottom of 9" cake or springform pan with parchment paper.

In a bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder, and salt and set aside.

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, add the egg whites and lemon juice (or vinegar) and whisk on medium speed until foamy.
With the mixer running, slowly pour in half of the sugar (½ cup, 100g) and increase the speed to medium high speed until stiff, glossy peaks form. The meringue will stand up as a stiff peak on the tip of the whisk.

Use a rubber spatula to scrape out the meringue into a separate bowl.
Add the egg yolks and remaining sugar (½ cup, 100g) to the bowl of the stand mixer and mix on medium speed with the whisk attachment until pale in color, fluffy and doubled in volume, and ribbons form.

With the mixer running on medium speed, slowly pour in oil then scrape down the sides. Turn the mixer back on to medium and slowly pour in the water and vanilla. Mix for another minute.

Use a fine mesh sieve to sift ⅓ of the flour mixture into the egg yolk mixture and fold it in with a rubber spatula. Then, add ⅓ of the egg whites and fold it in until no streaks remain.

Repeat the process with the remaining flour mixture and egg whites, taking care to get the spatula to the very bottom of the bowl (the flour will sink to the bottom and get stuck). Take care not to over mix, but very gently fold.

Pour the batter into the prepared pan, and bake for 25-30 minutes until golden and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Cool on a wire rack for 5 minutes, then run an offset spatula or knife around the sides and remove the cake from the pan to finish cooling.

Strawberry Simple Syrup

While the cake is cooling, combine the water, sugar and strawberries in a saucepan over medium heat. Stir until hot and the sugar has dissolved. Pour into a bowl or glass jar and let cool. This can also be done a day in advance and stored in the fridge.
Strawberry Puree (optional)
In a saucepan, cook the strawberries and sugar over medium low heat until the strawberries are easily mashed down with a spatula and develop juices, about 5 - 7 minutes.
In a small bowl, mix the corn starch and water, then add to the strawberries and turn to medium high just until it bubbles.
Remove the mixture from the heat and blend with an immersion blender (or blender/food processor) and set aside to cool. This can also be done a day in advance and stored in the fridge.

Whipped Cream Frosting

Before mixing, place the bowl of stand mixer and the whisk attachment in the freezer or fridge for 15 minutes. This helps the cream whip up best.

Once the chill time is almost up, add the gelatin and water to a small saucepan and allow it to bloom for 5 minutes. Then, turn the heat to the lowest setting and stir to dissolve. Depending on your stove top, either keep the gelatin on the lowest setting or turn off the burner - the gelatin needs to remain in a liquid phase.

When ready, add the heavy whipping cream to the bowl. Whip on low for about one minute, then turn to high and whip until soft peaks form. Turn to low and spoon in the powdered sugar and add the vanilla.

Turn the mixture back to high, and once stiff peaks have almost formed, slowly add in the gelatin while the mixture is running, whip until incorporated and until stiff peaks have formed.

Place in the fridge until ready to use.

Using a serrated knife, cut the cake into three horizontel even disc layers. Place the first layer onto a cake stand (or whatever you want to serve it on) and slide parchment paper under the cake to keep your stand clean.

Using a pastry brush (or a spoon), fully coat the top of the first cake layer with the simple syrup.

Add a dollop of whipped cream to the top and spread evenly over the cake layer, reaching the whole way to the sides. Layer half of the sliced strawberries evenly over the whipped cream, then add another dollop of whipped cream and spread it evenly to cover the strawberries.

Add the middle layer of cake and gently push down so you remove any gaps in the strawberries and whipped cream. Complete the same process with the simple syrup, whipped cream, strawberries, whipped cream.

Before adding the final layer, add the simple syrup to the underside of the cake (the crumb side, not the browned side) then place the layer crumb-side down and lightly press down.
Add the remaining whipped cream to the top and sides of the cake so it is fully covered. If using the strawberry puree, use a spatula to add small swipes of the puree to the tops and sides of the cake, then smooth it out to the desired texture.