Tuscan White Bean and Escarole Soup (Acqquacotta)

1 large onion chopped course
2 celery ribs, chopped course
4 garlic gloves peeled
1 (28 ounce) can while peeled tomatoes
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
Salt and pepper
1/8 teaspoon red pepper flakes
8 cups chicken broth
1 fennel bulb, 2 tablespoons fronds minced, stalks discarded, bulb halved, cored and cut into 1/2 - inch pieces
2 (15-ounce) cans cannelloni beans, drained with liquid reserved, rinsed.
1 small head escarole (10 ounces), trimmed and cut into 1/2/ inch pieces (8 cups)
2 large eggs yolks
1/2 cup chopped fresh parsley
1 tablespoon minced fresh oregano

10 (1/2 inch thick) slices thick-crusted country bread
1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil
Salt and pepper

Pulse onion celery an garlic in food processor until very finely chopped, 15 to 20 pulses, scrapping down side of bowl as needed. Transfer onion mixture to Dutch oven. Add tomatoes and their juice to now empty processor and pulse until tomatoes are finely chopped, 10 to 12 pulse, set aside

Stir oil, 3/4 teaspoon salt, and pepper flakes into onion mixture. Cook over medium high heat, stirring occasionally, until light brown fond begins to form on bottom of pot, 12 to 15 minutes. Stir in tomatoes, increase heat to high and cook, stirring frequently, until mixture is very think and rubber spatula leave distinct trail when dragged across bottom of pot 9 to 12 minutes.

Add broth and fennel bulb to pot and bring to simmer, Reduce heat to medium low and simmer until fennel begins to soften, 5 to 7 minutes. Stir in beans and escarole and cook until fennel is fully tender, about 10 minutes.

Whisk egg yolks and reserved bean liquid together in bowl, then stir into soup. Stir in parsley, oregano, and fennel fronds. Season with salt and pepper to taste.

For the toast: Adjust oven rack about 5 inches from the broiler element and heat broiler. Place bread on aluminum foil lined rimmed baking sheet, drizzle with oil, and season with salk and pepper. Broil until bread is deep golden brown. 

Place 1 slice bread in bottom of each individual bowl. Ladle soup over toasted bread. Serve, passing Percorino and lemon wedges separately.

