 Amazing Pizza
Only 1 message in topic - view as tree
	
Terry Carmen 	  Oct 24 2003, 5:15 pm     show options
Newsgroups: rec.food.recipes
Followup-To: rec.food.cooking, rec.food.recipes
From: Terry Carmen <t...@bupkis.org> - Find messages by this author
Date: Fri, 24 Oct 2003 21:12:51 +0000 (UTC)
Local: Fri,Oct 24 2003 5:12 pm
Subject: Amazing Pizza
Reply to Author | Forward | Print | Individual Message | Show original | Report Abuse

I've been tweaking this recipe for the past 10 years or so, and am
finally happy with it!

This is slow rising dough, but is more than worth the time required.

Pay special attention to the quality of the ingredients. Pizza is a
simple dish and there's nothing to cover up the taste of ingredients
that don't quite make the grade. If any ingredient doesn't taste
wonderful alone, it's not going to get better after you add it to the
others.

Enjoy!
Terry Carmen (t...@bupkis.org)
More recipes at http://www.bupkis.org

Dough

750  ml Bottled Water
1  tsp  Sugar
1  tsp  Yeast
2.5 lbs Bread Flour, unbleached, unenriched, if possible (I
use New Hope Mills)
2  Tbsp  Kosher Salt
Corn Meal

Equipment:
Dough Mixer
Pizza Stone(s)
6 Quart Plastic Bucket w/Lid

Make the water about 800F (use a thermometer!).
Add the the water, sugar & yeast to the dough mixer bowl and
whisk (by hand) until dissolved. Let sit for 10 minutes.
Add about half the flour and start the mixer on slow (this
prevents a blinding flour snowstorm, or if you're lucky, your very own
grain elevator explosion).
Once the ingredients have been mixed, add the salt. (You need to
add the salt after the yeast has been mixed into the dough, since the
salt retards the yeast)
Increase speed to medium and keep adding flour until the dough
becomes sticky and won't splash.
Increase speed to high and continue to slowly add flour 1/2 cup
(or less) at a time until the dough just cleans the sides and bottom
of the mixing bowl. The dough should be all on the dough hook, and not
on the side or bottom of the bowl.

You may need to use more or less flour than specified depending
on the amount of moisture already in the flour.
Keep kneading until you can windowpane the dough (squish a
little between your fingers, and pull it apart. If it's ready, you
will get a thin, semi-transparent membrane).
Put dough into a 6 Quart plastic bucket with a snap-on lid, and
let rise at room temperature (about 700) for 24 hours, or until
doubled in size. Do not punch down dough. The dough must be handled
gently from now on, since we don't want to lose all the bubbles the
yeast has worked so hard to make. Note that because of the tiny amount
of yeast used, the temperature is critical. If it's too cold, the
dough won't rise. Dust the cutting board with flour.
Gently remove dough from the bucket, and make a round blob on
the cutting board.
Cut into quarters. Sprinkle a little flour over the each piece
and form into balls. Cover with plastic wrap, let rest for a few
hours.

Please note that I'm not a food snob for specifying bottled water. The
chlorine content and pH of municipal water systems varies wildly
depending on the level of contamination of the source, and what kind
of maintenance activities are going on in the water system. Bottled
water is always consistent, and contains little or no chlorine. The
same chlorine that kills the bacteria in the water also kills the
yeast. Using chlorinated tap water will result in inconsistent
results and great frustration.

Makes (4) pizzas the same size as the peel and stone

Pizza Sauce (Adapted from Don Pintabona)

3  28 oz  Cans Whole Plum Tomatos, drained
1  Tbsp  Tomato Paste (optional, depending on the quality of
the canned tomatos used)
3  Small(really!) Sweet Onions, minced (or 1 large)
3  Cloves Garlic, finely minced
12 Leaves Fresh Basil
1  tsp  Dried Oregano
1  tsp  Sugar
2  Tbsp  Olive Oil
Salt & Fresh Ground Pepper to taste

Heat olive oil in a heavy 6 quart pot until shimmering
Add onion, sauti until translucent and softened
Add garlic and sauti until softened
Add tomato paste and saute until slightly cooked
Add tomatoes, crush with a potato masher
Add sugar, oregano and basil
Stir well and bring to simmer
Add salt and pepper to taste
Simmer until the tomatoes break down and the sauce is thick

Roasted Red Pepper, Sausage, Mushroom & Onion Pizza with Basil
1  Sauce (above)
2 1/2  lb Freshly Shredded Low Moisture, Part Skim Mozzarella
1/2 lb Sweet Sausage (I like the local brand "Gianelli")
grilled or pan fried, cut into rough chunks about a half inch thick.
1  6 or 8 oz Jar  Roasted Red Peppers sliced into 1/2" x 1"2"
strips
1  Large  Red Onion (cut into 1/2 slices, then cut the slices
into 1/2" sections and break apart )
8  oz White (or your favorite) mushrooms, sliced 1/4" thick
1  cup  Fresh basil leaves
Freshly grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese
Extra Virgin Olive oil

Put pizza stone(s) into oven. Set the oven to 5350 F, and heat for at
least an hour. Sprinkle corn meal on the pizza paddle. Make sure you use
enough, since a stuck pizza is Really Bad. Flatten the dough by poking it
down gently with your fingers, then when it's mostly flat, stretch it out
and lay it on the pizza paddle. If you're coordinated and want to impress
the guests, this is the time to toss it in the air and give it a spin. Add
a layer of Mozzarella (the cheese goes on first to keep the sauce from
making the crust soggy) and a half-dozen blobs of sauce. The sauce spreads
out while cooking, so don't use too much or your pizza will be soggy. Toss
some red-pepper strips, mushrooms and onions on the top Sprinkle on some
sausage. Grate fresh Parmigiano Reggiano over the top, lay down a dozen or
so Basil leaves and drizzle with a little bit of Extra Virgin Olive Oil.
Slide into oven on hot stone and bake until the top is browned and the
bottom is crispy. 