Walnut Strudel

16 tablespoons butter, cut into slices
1 large package (8 ounces) cream cheese, cut into small pieces
3 Cups flour (445g)
Extra flour (for rolling)
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup pineapple or apricot preserves
2 tablespoons ground cinnamon
2/3 cup sugar
1 cup walnuts, finely chopped
1 egg white, lightly beaten

Have on hand a baking sheet lined with parchment paper or greased with butter.

In the bowl of an electric mixer, cream together the butter and cream cheese. Add the flour and salt and blend at low speed just until the mixture comes together to form a dough.

Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured board. Divide it into 3 equal pieces. Shape each into a flat cake and wrap in foil. Refrigerate the dough for 2 hours.

Let the dough sit at room temperature for 30 minutes.

Set the oven at 425 degrees. On a lightly floured counter, roll out 1 piece of dough to an 8 by 10 inch rectangle. Spread with 1/3 of the preserves.

In a bowl, stir together the cinnamon and sugar. Sprinkle the preserves with 3 tablespoons of the cinnamon sugar and 1/3 of the nuts.

Starting at one long side, roll up the dough, jellyroll fashion. Carefully transfer it to the prepared baking sheet. Press the open ends lightly with your fingertips to seal them. With a small knife, lightly score the roll at 1 inch intervals. Brush it with egg white and sprinkle with 1 tablespoon of the cinnamon sugar.

Continue rolling out and filling the remaining pieces of dough. Transfer all the logs to the baking sheet.

Bake the strudel in the hot oven for 15 minutes. Reduce the temperature to 325 degrees and continue baking for 15 to 20 minutes or until the logs are golden brown. Remove them from the oven and transfer them to a wire rack. Cut each log into 12 pieces.

Eric's Notes:
I like to use a food processor to make the dough. The dough is fairly thick and it seems to put a lot of stress on the mixer

I've also used raspberry jelly and mini chocolate chips instead of the pineapple and walnuts. It comes out very good.
