Whoopie Pies

2/3 cup unsweetened American-style cocoa powder sifted after measuring, if lumpy
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups all-purpose white flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/3 cups packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup white vegetable shortening
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, slightly softened
1 large egg
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup sour cream

FILLING
1/3 cup white vegetable shortening
1/3 cup (5 1/3 tablespoons) unsalted butter,slightly softened
1 cup powdered sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons light corn syrup
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 7-ounce jar (1 1/3 cups) marshmallow creme

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease several baking sheets or coat
with nonstick spray.

In a medium bowl, beat together the cocoa powder, baking soda, and 3/4 cup hot water with a fork until smooth; the mixture will foam up and darken. Let stand until the foaming subsides and the mixture cools. In a medium bowl, thoroughly stir together the flour, baking powder, and
salt.

In a large bowl, with an electric mixer on medium speed, beat together the brown sugar, shortening, and butter until well blended, about 2 minutes; if necessary, scrape down the sides of the bowl several times. Add the egg and vanilla and beat until very light and fluffy, about 2 minutes more. Beat in half of the flour mixture; scrape down the sides several times. Stir the sour cream into the cocoa mixture. On low speed, beat the cocoa mixture, then the remaining flour mixture, into the brown-sugar mixture until evenly incorporated.

Using a 14-cup measure, drop the dough onto the baking sheets, spacing about 3 1/2 inches apart. Using a lightly greased knife, smooth out the tops slightly; don't make the rounds much larger, or they may spread too much during baking.

Bake the cookies, one sheet at a time, in the middle of the oven for 10 to 14 minutes, or until they just spring back when lightly pressed in the centers. Reverse the sheet from front to back halfway through baking to ensure even browning. Transfer the sheet to a wire rack and let stand until the cookies firm up, 4 to 5 minutes. Using a spatula, transfer the cookies to wire racks. Let stand until completely cooled.

FOR THE FILLING
In a large bowl, with an electric mixer on medium speed, beat together the shortening, butter, powdered sugar, corn syrup, vanilla, and salt until well blended and fluffy. Add the marshmallow creme and beat until evenly incorporated.

Spread about 43 cup of the filling on the underside of half of the cookies, leaving a 12-inch border around the edge. Top each cookie with a second cookie about the same size. Press the two together until the filling almost extends to the edges.

Store the cookies in individual plastic bags for up to 1 week. Do not freeze.

1.5x

1 cup unsweetened American-style cocoa powder sifted after measuring, if lumpy 
1 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
3 cups all-purpose white flour 
1 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1 1/8 teaspoon salt 
2 cups packed light brown sugar 
1/3 cup white vegetable shortening 
1/3 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, slightly softened 
1 1/2 large egg 
3 teaspoons vanilla extract 
3/4 cup sour cream 
 
1/2 cup white vegetable shortening 
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, slightly softened 
1 1/2 cup powdered sugar 
2 1/4 tablespoons light corn syrup 
3 teaspoons vanilla extract 
3/4 teaspoon salt 
2 cups marshmallow creme 
